
at Factory Tea Bar in the SGV:

after reading my last entry here, i pretty much feel the same.

this week has been even hotter than the past two months. It's now unlivable. In the past few months, the mind dulls in the heat. Now it can't even stand it. Even a shaded area isn't enough. You'd need to run to an air conditioned place at this point--which is how i'm here!

earlier, i was pondering that the east coast is indeed better, dreamin' about the Carolinas. They have it all: water/precipitation, humidity, seasons, seafood(!!), feelings. It even has that rural feeling, but of a sea-side town! The dry heat gets dull. The same everyday, like a village in the central plains of an asian country, like central Thailand. Ugh, not that again! The heat attracts me, but it's a trap. There no nature here (nor in central Thailand). *Without the change of weather, as in Taiwan, as on the east coast, it's no good, no life.* Florida would actually be the ideal choice, if it weren't populated by the worst people. Instead, i think i'll have to settle with the Bay, for now.

as for culture, the ethnic enclaves are too old, especially the Chinese and (Chinese?) Vietnamese ones. Only the eastern part of San Gabriel Valley is left to try, with Rowland Heights as it's focal point.. but it's so isolating, even more spread out, like south OC, but with East Asians--in addition to also being too old! It seems like the Asians i wouldn't get along with anyway: the house-bound Korean, Japanese, Chinese, and Taiwanese. They got away from the mess that the new immigrants made and still make in Monterey Park, in search of peace, quality. In doing so, they left all the street culture behind, adapted to the suburban way of life. Perhaps the street-cultured ones never made it to America. Nowadays, in order to come to America, you probably need to have a specialized skill.

so, what now?

i could explore the eastern side of San Gabriel Valley, but i'm not so sure... it seems dead. It would take forever, *you'd have to grow up there to really socially integrate into that place. None of it is worth it, when you can just jump in a hostel, a city, or another country, and just find the right people, near instantly!* It's the travellers that are great, social, able to listen, able to see, and seemingly rare here. The suburbs doesn't have that sort of culture. It's a village. The people here are here to stay, forever. They have no interest in ecology, politics, society, or anything. They are unconsious, now driving a SUV to go anywhere. *Here in the SGV, there isn't even a place to walk!* [let that sink in..!!]

/ here at Factory Tea Bar, which is a combo tea shop and video game arcade(!!), i can see myself at a young age (if it actually had arcade games--not just "rhythm games"), not interested in anything other than the games. The suburbs are so boring, all there is is the computer: media: mediated communications. Beyond that, the only life is within the house: cooking and eating with family. It's seperated from nature, rural/farms, city: city-spaces and city-culture: *affinity*, ambition, cooperation, simply having dreams, motivation, a simple desire to change. Someone said, "LA is where souls go to die". I think that aptly applies to any suburb, not just LA (though, small towns near nature actually do have more potential).

the SGV goes from conservative village mentality (first generation immigrants and ethnic enclaves) to hopeless, aimless suburban mentality (second generation and possibly beyond), still retaining the conservativeness of the village--at least for the suburbs (san gabriel valley and orange county). I guess i'd have to go to northeast LA (and possibly central and west-side LA) to find any hope. Perhaps that's the only liberal stronghold at the moment (along with Long Beach). But then the ethnic cultures are lost, turning into white liberals.. but, perhaps, that's natural? The Asians that immigrated here only came to survive, to get a better life. Only a few of their children, or children's children, will go towards a more liberal way of life. Instead, they must approach liberal values while still living within their cultures...[stopped thinking]

there's a bit of me in these Asians, especially the older first generation ones that hang out in the park.. that retain an old, traditional village feel.. but even then, there are so few among them that retain the natural, wandering, nature-loving side to them. The rest go straight into extremely conservative livelihoods, stuck to their houses, never to leave.

back to the Bay i must go, before i die of heat, and tarmac.



-- (another month..!?!?)

Monterey Park is long past it's time. Only the old are left. And they're tired, only enough food to eat, to live. Some worked their whole lives, for what? Only the dirty business-men have prospered, riding around in big white SUVs, mostly Teslas. The small shops are owned by plain bad business-men, and run them by underpaying illegal immigrants, of their own kind! In nearby El Monte, where it's clearly more ghetto, more latino, more abandoned, there's actually more hope, with newer little shops popping up with normal prices, run by normal people. It's closer to Virginia Beach in demographics, not 100% Chinese. There's even a Little Ceasar's. Maybe Monterey Park is indeed the same as San Francisco's Chinatown, the same sort of people, mostly from Guangzhou province, absolutely *indifferent* to the world. I don't like them. I probably don't like the Chinese Vietnamese either, whom probably are also are originally immigrants from Guangzhou anyway! They probably are part of the people that ruined Taibei too. Just heartless, indifferent entrepeneurs. Ugh!

i'm not sure if the rest of SGV is even worth trying. I'm tired, and it's only been a month and a half. Being out all day, on the scooter, in the dry heat of summer in the valley.. It's too tiring. I actually crave the nature, humidity, the technical job market, the energy of the Bay Area (or, at least, of SF). Food matters, but in America, it really is best to just cook at home. Maybe i should've stuck to San Jose 'n Santa Cruz. It's a good combo, those two, along with SF.. after that, i've basically lived all over the Bay! Those introverted nerds are my people! Boring, maybe. But at least they're not super conservative, penny-pinching, village mentality, nor owned/run by gangster/business-man. The corporations actually are better. Go from corporate tech to owning/running your own business. It's better than working for a terrible individual. Thinking back, SF's restaurants are actually run by decent people. I can't say the same about Monterey Park. And i'm not sure about the rest of the SGV.. but now i understand why the Taiwanese left this area. The newer immigrants ruined it, with their bad business practices, careless driving, careless everything. In contrast, *the Taiwanese care about everything, like me.*

yeah, it's time to move out.. it's too homogenous anyway.. it was a good stop, for the yin, for peace 'n quiet, children, elderly, family-friendly parks. Maybe West Covina/Walnut actually is the way to go..?? Ugh. That's just too far. I need the valley views. Maybe Rowland Heights.. maybe..? :/ Despite all its problems, i dig the village feel. If i had a place, i'd def just stick to DIY/vending in the valley-view parks (garvey and barnes). Fuck the rest of world.


-- (a month since the last entry?)

i have always lived with people. To live without people is loveless. That, i think, is what old people can feel.

--


these days i'm not doing anything: i'm not thinking, just intermittent longings, for Taiwan, for my parents, for the suburbs i grew up in... This Singha and Hakura Nakamura's Still Life II is hittin', simple beer and simple music: simple pleasures.

the chinese people in Monterey Park are so.. familial--no: exclusive in their social network. They don't recognize anyone beyond it. It's damn near impossible to break through it. You'd probably look crazy trying to just talk to 'em. Yet, i find peace here, in isolation. I walk toward the yin. There's no other choice. In a valley of two million, it feels as if there's not a single soul here. It's no Taiwan, but the yin is here.

for the past year or so, in America, i've been distracted by the yang, the crazy Americans, homeless, drugged.. Their stupid primitive desires.. Now, here, on a couch, i am alone, at peace. *No need to take care of anyone. Everyone or every household takes care of theirselves.* The suburbs is a strange place indeed.. isolating. alienating. frightening. *but here, one has the time and space to look inward,* to be one's self, to reach one's true potential.. maybe.

*the cities are tiring, an impossible task: to try to live an work together. Maybe these Asians are right, we must simply take care of ourselves. There's no other way. We must all learn how to take care of ourselves. We cannot depend on others, the services of others. By nature, i am at service for others, but, perhaps, that is wrong..* Perhaps i must go against my nature, and begin to service myself.

there's a popular phrase, "you must take care of yourself to take care of others." I never really agreed with it, as there are always people in worse conditions, so i do what i can. And anyway, it's so lifeless to take care of myself! I'm a social being!! I get my energy from others! Servicing others, collaborating with others, living with others: that's life!, to me.

here in the middle of nowhere, without anyone, anyone to take care of, i begin to survive alone. It's the most boring time in my life, but, i gotta live.

--


testing emacs + laptop for writing: is it too cumbersome?

with ai now, what's the point? just talk to write on any phone..

yeah, i can't even remember my initial thought!..



in America, i have no interest in even trying to go toward the direction of my nature: permaculture, DIY, land-oriented ethics, indigenous cultures, etc. Surely, they exist, there's always hope--perhaps even innate to humans.. eventually..??--. I just don't have the.. motivation?.. i'm just livin', survivin'.. let me figure out how to survive first, then i'll get to my passions--but that's that contradiction: i am depressed if i am not going toward my passionate directions, and so survival is hard.

i chose survival, making some money, but i can't do it. I can't do it without the Taiwanese culture, my friends, my people, my land, my food...

i found the food here, in monterey park. I also found valley views, good weather too. The people are old, like a rural village. It's no Taiwan, but it's a start..

i just didn't want to fight from permaculture in America.. absolutely not in the cold either.. I kept dreaming of doing some motorcycle delivery, but it's taken me this long to even prepare (permit, insurance, license, etc.) for applying to a delivery app..

*in Taiwan, i'd never work without a friend.* I'd do everything through the network of friends. By nature, i am just a helper. I do what i need in my mind, and i'm satisfied.

also, living in communal spaces: hostels, communes, etc., i've become used to that way of life: helping each other.. *I had become completely dependent, or absolutely in service to others.*

when i came back to America, i had no will to do anything independently. My only way out was to find people with shared affinity. But i didn't even have the motivation to do that. I just got by.

it wasn't until monterey park, with the views of the valley, drier, healthy air, that i've become more focused. Still little to no will/motivation, but, enough to figure out that *i need a car.* *A car is the beginning to an independent life.* *The houses/buildings were all traps*, creating relations out of proxmity, not choice. With a car, everything becomes my choice: what i eat, what i drink, who i meet, when i meet, everything: i am in complete control.

NSX knew this. Yuyi told me, once. I didn't listen.

this small mistake has cost me years of life, all the way to the beginning of my travels, ~15 years ago.
