
1:
slowly, slowly, transitioning to the suburban way of life in some ways, and fighting it in more ways: i now wake up, shower, cook, and am stuck at a house at night (though, can just be out on the yard/patio). Most of the lives around me are mediated or through a telephone. I am alone, a city person, with a desire to make media. Dreams of organizing a little film crew for podcasts about immigrants SGV (and the rest of the LA metro), documentary films of small business owners telling their immigration stories, building a history and identity for the area. Dreams of starting a little game studio for simple cultural games too. All i need is a room in a house, some space outside to chill and feel the weather, some youthful, passionate artists, and some nature to run to.

long beach, though urban, might be too distracting.. it's a place where i'd want to hustle food 'n drinks on the beach. SGV, i think, may push me towards making media. Focusing on the computer more, focusing on information. It's physically detached. But hopefully, within the homes of immigrant families, i can explore a whole 'nother world.

2:
LA has so much history. SF only has chinatown and the mission left. *LA still has all the immigrants.* "Boat people" from vietnam, cambodia, laos, now in long beach, westminster, rosemead. Southern chinese in chinatown, migrating eastward to monterey park. Taiwanese in the east part of San Gabriel Valley, along with filipinos and other asians. Filipinos also in the LBC, from the navy, moving inland to carson, then again to west covina (SGV). Indians in irvine, cerritos..

they all found LA's weather and geography to be ideal, told their friends thrown to colder, more isolated places to come here, live together, start businesses together, re-create their culture, here, in America. America couldn't kill the culture out of the first generation of immigrants. They brought it with them, and hopefully, to their children. Without their land, plants, foods, people, their culture is all that they have.

3:
it's the immigrants that attract me, inspire me, motivate me.., to live. I emphathize, want to help. They are my community. I want to take care of them. They are my people. That's all i needed in America. That's what i was looking for. I found it.

4:
chinese culture, particularly taiwanese culture as it's greatest example, is the best human culture that i'm aware of. It's pragmatic. It's caring, loving, holistic. The confucian bits, of hard work, etc. taint it, but that hasn't altered it's core values from going in the right direction. What's more important than having a culture that goes in the right direction?

*for me to exist, i must belong to a society with a culture that is going in the right direction. That is what i've always seeked out.*

first, it led me to Taiwan, then to the contemporary back-to-nature/village communities, now to San Gabriel Valley.

though i must go back to living near nature, homesteading, i am nothing without the culture, the people. I am not motivated without others. I don't want to live alone in America. I need, at least one person that shares such a culture.

all i need is one person that lives the culture.
