

santa barbara.. i have no interest in the town: it's culture-less. But i am thankful for the beaches in the county, and students, whom provide a nice communal vibe.

isla vista is the perfect little bucolic beach-town. It's remoteness and stucco beach houses remind me of small coastal towns in the carolinas. There's nothing to do there, save walking around and looking at the ocean. It feels like living on an island, like the ones in Thailand: a bubble, but a good one, with more pure-hearted people.

that's all California has: college-towns. The rest is suburbia, both Bay Area and LA. The only exceptions are SF, Berkley/Oakland, Long Beach, central LA, and west-side LA. And even then, all of those are sleepy except west and central LA. And those are two places where driving (and living?) would be hell.

the San Gabriel Valley actually is special. A valley of 2 million Asians and Latinos. It may not be fun if you don't own or live in a house there, but it does have all the benefits of Asian culture: peaceful, safe, and good food.

there's hope in that valley, in the small 'n pop shops. Though most suck, riddled by rich business-owners, there's still a few good shops that have heart--just not the tea shops. It's a good place to grow up, have friends. Sunny every-day, no need for air conditioner. It's a good place to open a food 'n drink shop. It's just a pain to drive through. Those drivers are maddening. And good, lively shops/people are very rare. And the weather is dry year-round, hot during the day, polluted all summer. And there's no nature around. Just the mountains, which i have yet to explore. Yeah.. maybe not the best, but at least Chinese people keep their culture..

and without a house, it seems difficult to find a cheap place to rent. So much so, that even elder Chinese people choose to live in their cars instead! It's just not worth it. And it's def not worth living in a car there.. Besides.. it's so much better to live 'n work in a city, or near a school, where there's lively, passionate people, and a sense of community. Even better if there's nature around.

as far as i know, and as far so SoCal goes, it's just Long Beach. There really ain't nothin' like it: the beach, prime SoCal weather, black culture (and people!, whom aren't nearly as wide-spread as on the east coast..), asian food joints, hipsters, post-gender, affordable rent (the only affordable place on the entire coast of SoCal)... It's kind of like east Brooklyn, but on the beach: a mix of artists, hipsters, and street-savvy people. I think i'll have to try it... but after i get a car! Maybe the last place i'll live in California..

beyond that, it's just the college-towns: Santa Barbara, Santa Cruz (seems seperated tho..), likely UCLA, and maaaybe Davis (though that's quite a drive.. and dry.. and land-locked.. nahhhh). That's all i've got. Just live in a car between these three places, and forget about looking for places to rent. *Long Beach during the summer-time, when the kids are out of school/town, and the small college-towns during school.* Or, just get out of America during the winter.. and summer.. and head to Taiwan (or Hawaii, or even Mexico). There, i'd have to hustle during the day (tutor English, vend food/drinks) and work on computer stuff at night. Ugh... this is going to be tiring life.. :/

anyway, i'm glad to have visited UCSB and isla vista. Finally, a real college-town, *entirely bikeable*, with walkable commercial streets. Def worth working in. The nature and small-town vibe makes it sooo much better than Berkeley!

welp, that's that then. I've pretty much explored Cali.. time to hustle!
