heya.

i'm at a point in life where i'm coming back to America, specifically California, for the sole purpose of doing career-related work. I recently finished my trip exploring the coast of Cali--by scooter!--and now am at the end in San Diego while i ponder upon some mid-life career directions..

my passions within design and tech peaked with interactive art game experiences in NY long ago. If i had continued in that direction when i was young, i may have done creative digital tech consultancy, designing art-tech experiences for big brands or work with academia (Parsons). Instead, nature called, so i pursued much deeper paths in life in Asia. Now that i'm coming back to tech work, i feel i have the patience to work on singular big products such as this one.

though i've been out of the tech world for some time, recently, during my off-time while working at UC Berkeley (not tech-related), with just an old chromebook at hand, i discovered some newfound joy in computers again while searching for tools to make making games, gui apps, 'n web apps more fun (and i found them!: dragonruby/mruby, haxeui/haxe, phoenix/elixir). The journey led me through a history of programming languages, linux (--of note: i actually learned linux cli through the really well written out-sourced tutorials of Digital Ocean!--), unix/terminals/shells, text editors, all the way back to the beginning with lisp/emacs 'n smalltalk'! It was a fun blast through the past. So now i'm seeking out more generalist support jobs like this one, in addition to product design.

it's the new concepts that drive me. In the past, that was new media art game experiences. Now, it's putting new products into the world, in order to change the world. And though i won't be able to do that for myself during this job, it would be incredible to do that for others. :)

one big boon to working here is that i had already planned to use the phoenix framework for my own web app ideas (LINK)! Around that time, i experienced the best time making games using dragonruby (LINK), and i had immediately fell in love with ruby. Though i missed her prime rails era, phoenix seemed like her natural reincarnation. Also, it's cool to be able to try a more functional paradigm! I feel elixir/BEAM is a very practical and neat solution specific for web apps, while being possibly even more elegant and simpler than ruby! As a person who has successfully avoided javascript web dev entirely, it was an easy choice. And now with live-view components and live-view.js, i can finally make web apps and be happy! Yay. :D

beyond the inital few pro tech jobs i did (.net dev and ETL, qa & release engi), most of my design 'n tech experience came from my passion for making games. And as making games only requires pure systems programming, i honestly lack the contemporary large-scale web app pro work experience to compete in today's software job market: countless js frameworks, cloud computing / container orchestration, language modelling, software for massive scale. Thus, as far as most tech companies go, my skills limit me to support and design roles. And even then, art game design doesn't seem to translate well. :/

within a bigger tech team, i naturally belong to more generalist product roles: making--designing, developing, and maintaining products-- and talking--product manager, QA, customer/community support/success--, preferring to always have the big picture in mind from a far viewpoint, learning and doing a bit of everything, conceptualizing and prototyping products, naturally communicating and collaborating with everyone (via chat channels), understanding what customers want (via forums and chat channels), what they like aesthetically, what they love, having a sense of good product design (great-feeling controls, interaction, a sane user interface and experience), tinkering on products, prioritizing the most obviously broken things and the lowest hanging fruit of features that would make customers happy, and constantly making the design better, inside 'n out. Though the ui/ux engineer is the job that i truly desire, this support engineer job might be a better and easier entry for me. Anyway, i think it leads to ui/ux more naturally: once i've deployed it a million times for customers, and even a few times for my own web app ideas(!), i'll know exactly what needs better design. ;)

i think it'd be very ideal to work with a small remote crew where it's very DIY and where everyone does everything. I hope to check out what the infrastructure and ui/ux folks do day-to-day, to see where i can help. It's also very possible that the support engineer is actually the best fit job for me at Fly, as i love to talk (if you couldn't tell..), i naturally maintain knowledge-bases (maybe it's time for emacs org-mode!), and i love discord. Though, i'd def be down for supporting and talking about the design and development of the products!

lastly, Taiwan has been my home for nearly a decade now, so if it's even possible work from there, it would be my life's dream: to be able to live and work from home. After travelling down the coast of Cali, i now know there is nothing that comes close to life in Asia (save, perhaps, Hawaii and Puerto Rico). I came to Cali so that i can gather some career experience from tech jobs on-site, but if i can jump straight to remote work, then i can simply go home and finally be at peace. :) Otherwise, my parents live in Virginia (US EST), though i'm currently in Cali exploring places to live and work (US PST).

please just e-mail me, otherwise, you can try contacting this number: 415-535-8416 .

ra
