heya.

i'm at a point in life where i'm coming back to America, specifically California, for the sole purpose of doing career-related work. I recently finished my trip exploring the coast of Cali, now stuck in San Diego/Tijauna, doing gig work down here in the warmth of the sun while i prepare for Central America and ponder upon some mid-life career directions.

gitlab in particular interests me for many reasons. First, i'm fond of ruby, the programming language, and i think it would be really cool to work across multiple small projects all in one language i love for good tech practice: from scripts to smaller tool apps (cli, smaller web apps) to the main app (rails), along with whatever systems languages used. From what i gather from the job post, it seems an ideal job for a tech generalist, on track towards tools dev / devops, which is the tech route i want to try (along with product roles). Another reason is that the headquarters is in SF, which i'm familiar with and can easily re-locate to in case i need to be in office. Lastly, Taiwan has been my home for nearly a decade now, so if it's even possible work from there, it would be my life's dream: to be able to live and work from home (i'm applying to both "AMER" positions, as i'm a US citizen..).

within a tech company, i naturally belong to a more generalist product maintainer role, preferring to always have the big picture in mind from a far viewpoint, naturally communicating, collaborating, making little tools, understanding what customers want, having a sense of practical product design (great-feeling controls, interaction, a sane user interface and experience), prioritizing the most obviously broken things and the lowest hanging fruit of features that would make customers happy, and constantly making the design better, inside 'n out. Yet, at this moment in life, as i'm just getting back into pro tech work, i don't mind getting dirty and doing some grunt work either, for the purpose of learning contemporary web tech and honing core programming skill. Design is the simple 'n natural part for me, programming is just the necessary means. When making games solo, both design and programming are so intertwined it's difficult to seperate the two jobs: the program is the design, and the design is the program; So i always feel i must master both.

because my personal tech experience mostly dealt with small 'n artsy games, i lack the contemporary large-scale web app experience most jobs want, so i'm only left with these rare support roles (product and engi support). Of the skills listed on this job post, i'm mainly missing the dev-ops experience: containers (docker), container orchestration (kubernetes, ansible), advanced ci/cd. I just never worked on such a big project that would need such techs. Next, i don't have rails experience either: i discovered ruby through jekyll 'n github pages, and i only really got into ruby with dragonruby, a mruby game engine. In fact, dragonruby is my favorite game engine, something i spent a long time searching for, after having gone through several other game engines written in various other languages. For my own web app ideas, i'm skipping rails for phoenix/elixir. I missed the rails hey-day. Lastly, I'm not a heavy linux user. I've mostly dealt with it through terminals: arch-linux and debian via a chromeos lxc, linux subshell on windows, and vps on digital ocean. The arch-wiki was my main learning resource. Also, more recently, i kinda ditched linux, terminal/unix apps, 'n bash for windows, emacs, 'n powershell, so i'll have to get back into linux mode again too. Despite all of that, i really do find the tools dev / dev-ops route fascinating, precisely because it's all-over-the-place, requiring broad tech knowledge; quickly writing small programs 'n scripts, scheduling them to run, writing small visualization/web apps, automating server deployment, jumping around servers in terminals/emacs: posing as a hacker.. it's all sounds far more fun to me than sheer software dev roles (web or systems!), as i like the change, like jumping around tasks, like doing a bit of everything. Dabbling with various little programs written in various languages, while spending most of the time verbally communicating and supporting others sounds ideal to me!

anyway, after travelling the coast of Cali, i now know there is nothing that comes close to life in Asia, except maybe Hawaii. I'm just here so i can gather some career experience from tech jobs on-site, but if i can jump straight to remote work, then i can just go home and finally be at peace. :)

please just e-mail me, as i'll be getting another phone in Mexico!

hmmm, after seeing emchang.gitlab.io, i might have to steal that web resume idea..! :D

ra
