the only place in California where the grass is green, for me
LA is amongst the last places in America i ever wanted to be in, on paper it's the worst: it's the epitome of American suburban non-planning, fake people--inside and out--, awful movies (i was a film snob as a kid!). I've avoided it my whole life.

NYC was an amazing experience during my youth, but i burnt myself out in a few months, and became frozen to the bone and suffered from winter blues soon after, desiring more nature, knowing there's more to the world than the city. It remains one of the most intense and easily the most productive (art/career) time in my life. I gave SF another try.

SF has a piece of my heart because it was my first city, but even by 2012, there just wasn't anything going on other than lame tech startups, edm raves, gay dudes in black tights, other than the mission district containing the hobo-thrift hipster antique shops of williamsburg (NY) but without all the DIY art venues/communities/communes/spaces, energy, diversity, 'n life of NY (maybe ATA was an exception..). Those people didn't seem to talk to the people on the street just parallel to it. And when i came back to America, in 2023, it had become a zombie dystopia: autonomous cars stopped by homeless people, many on fentanyl, crystal, weed, alcohol, anything you can nearby, which the cops allowed, to either let them die or move out.

Berkeley in 2024 was a similarly lame ghost-town, similarly hanging on to it's glorified counter-cultural past, boasting similar ethics ("rad".. or as radical as a philosopher working at Berkeley can be..), but with a suburban town plan. There is nothing rad about those rich foriegn / international students, nor even the domestic ones, though their hearts in a good direction. The Long Haul is all that remains of that time, still containing an vast archive of zines at it's height.. and maybe that one music venue that Green Day keeps alive..

i rode down the coast from SF to San Diego, by scooter, in search of greener grass, and i must say, much of Cali sucks, straight missing grass (lit 'n fig*)*. The combination of housing laws, development, investors/landlords, city planning, etc. stagnated all hope in most urban areas. And beyond major urban areas, it gets very white, very quick.

San Diego is a mellow version of LA, without the arts 'n culture, without that energy too, yet still at Laguna Beach prices on the coast, especially north county, and Bay Area prices for new developments, until you hit the east/south-east latino neighborhoods, where any semblance of hope begins. North Park (that whole area) is the sole hip area, maybe similar to the Sunset(?) in SF, but at SF rent prices, lower income, a strange amusement park (balboa), actual amusement parks and other tourist crap, racist white folk (met a proud boy), jocks 'n military pricks fighting around pacific beach/boardwalk. In fact, tourism is it's main draw, but for what? An ice cold beach? I swam in my shorts in VA Beach as a kid! I don't even want to put my feet into that water! Without decent cost of rent, where are the artists, innovators, poor, blue-collar supposed to go?

if the Bay Area is filled up by single family homes of rich tech people (the last part being Hayward as of 2024, at the opposite end of silicon valley), and now even San Diego is similarly filled up with rich tech people (the tri-valley/fremont/milpitas being similar to mira-mesa/sorrento valley and beyond: a new development of boring tract houses for the next gen of tech asians), plus retired military people, more white folks ... and if the small towns, including college-towns, suffer from housing crises: santa cruz (truly the last hope!), san luis obispo, monterey(?).. what's left?

the cheaper parts of LA, of course! If one rides south along the coast of LA, one will discover very rich, very white, european-feeling, young (santa monica, venice beach) and old (manhattan, hermosa) and super-rich (torrance), until you hit the LBC, where a sort of Oakland demographics of people (black, south-east asian, latinos, street-smart students 'n artists, 'n more!) appears, with diverse income too (<3 homeless people), the only place that gave me an east coast vibe, complete with it's own downtown, hot-spots, but instead bumpin' west-coast music from the car while groovin' on the beach! I immediately found my people. A downtown urban vibe on the beach?? With beach weather?? One you can literally just park beside, like Ocean Beach, but infinitely more diversity (not exaggerating that figure) , and wayyy warmer?? Yes, the LBC, where the rich people throw their trash and pollute the air, and where the lowest minorities (Cambodians, Laotians, Hmongs, Blacks) made a home, alongside the port that subsists us all, where they worked hard at. I surely missed it's heydey, but wow, was i happy to see some different people after riding down that bit of LA..!

even in Westminster, a random part of OC, full of Vietnamese people, is super interesting: they have about 20 vietnamese temples, 30 cafe/snack shops, of course a ton of viet restaurants and other standard businesses that cater to their culture (..nails, beauty shops..), 1 amazing islamic temple, and even strip malls full of shady shops ("cafes") that you'd find in a bamboo shack in south-east Asia! I was surprised. As much as i heard how boring Irvine/(south?) OC is, this is certainly not Starbucks-land! I haven't seen this much culture since i was in Asia! You'd have to go to Flushing, Queens to witness this amount of other-worldliness. Some of these two-story strip malls resemble the upper-class shopping areas in India! In fact, LA resembles Asian cities the most: a mess!

it's a strange world, LA. It's certainly ugly on the outside: endless grid roads, endless white SUVs and teslas, endless strip malls, yet, out of all the places i've seen in Cali, i feel there's more hope here precisely because there is so much space, and so much people. And the same goes for NY, not limited by 7x7 miles of SF, but had space in 2012 around bushwick/myrtle for things to start, and probably dumbo/greenpoint/astoria/williamsburg before that, a natural process of gentrification, even if we hate it. It's got that natural city feel, where the city is always changing, areas come up, areas go down, spots comes up, spots go down, a bustle of activity happening in some spots for a moment, and then they're gone, only to pop up elsewhere. It's healthy. Build hope in cheap spaces. Without space to be, what do we have? (Streaming, i guess..)

houses..! House businesses. House events. House parties. Forget the laws. As long one isn't living in some place resembling south OC with butt-tight cops 'n HOA 'n all.. I figured, LA would be the first to break the rules on zoning, out of need, building businesses on the streets, in residential zones..

and the houses are big, comfy, fit for the weather. Thrice the size of a NY or SF closet. SF housing feels like they haven't been updated since they were built, in the 1940s! In NY, you can't even buy something on Avenue Z(!), so good luck dealing with landlords your whole life..

anyway, i'm just genuinely surprised of my experience in LA (metro). The energy of the people is high, optimistic, fun, cooperative, outgoing, musical, living in the moment. The culture can get to the level of Queens and east of that: the most first-generation, traditional people i've ever encountered in America. They didn't forget their languages. They didn't forget their past. And kudos to them for holding it, building their own businesses, owning their own strip malls, owning their own houses. The mountains are in the distance, visible, calling me. The air has that beach breeze, with the beach also nearby, also calling me. I can ride my motorcycle day and night. I can't believe it, but the grass is actually greener in LA.

(note: i just wrote this thought out in one session! don't be too critical :D)
