heya.

i recently finished my trip down the coast of Cali, now in San Diego, doing gig work down here in the warmth of the sun while i prepare for Mexico and look for a career job. I worked at UCB last summer (as a summer custodian), and lived in SF before, so i'm familar with the area, and feel comfortable re-locating back, but in this case only of aboslutely necessary. I actually had my first job in Cali near there, at Perfect World, back when Torchlight was released, as a "QA 'n release engineer", and it's pretty desolate. I'd have to either live in south-east SF or closer to Palo Alto.

one of the main reasons this job appeals to me is simply because the job post mentions "ruby/go" (along with java). I'm really hoping the code-base is simply a ruby on rails web app with go "micro-services", which is precisely what i think i'd feel comfortable and happy working on, as far as web goes, as i'm not a web person. I'm a bit picky about the tools i use, and a RoR app is nearly exactly how i'd personally make little web apps on my own (though, now, with elixir/phoenix in it's stead). Ruby is my favorite programming language, something i never had the chance to seriously use (beyond my jekyll site and basic scripts) as it's not fit for games/creative media projects; However, recently, i stumbled upon ruby again through Dragonruby, a game engine and an original fork of mruby, and it provided the most blissful game-making and programming experience i've ever had. Architecting and re-architecting game systems has never been so seamless, neat, beautiful. And just about every game object can be stored into an array of hashes (instead of C-structs), so it ended up being quite simple 'n neat (thanks to features like splatting and mixins), at the cost of performance.

because i've stuck to making little games, i don't have much web experience, and so i'll def have to work some more on some personal web app projects before the job to refresh my mind (in phoenix/elixir though). My first job was a MS .NET/ASP/IIS one, back when linq-to-sql was new, and i haven't done web professionally since. I'm not sure how much has changed since, but after trying phoenix, it seems that the back-end MVC has remained the same. And phoenix's generation scripts make starting a common web project cake! Only the front-end has made a leap with React/components, so i'd just have to catch up on the front-end JS crap, cloud computing, AI, etc.

now that i'm old, i recently spent some time searching for tools that i like, in order to make making digital stuff (games, apps, creative media, scripts) on my own a more pleasant experience; And ruby remains one of the main tools that i want to invest time in (along with: C, haxe, jai, elixir/beam, emacs/e-lisp, powershell). At this point in life, i'd really like to hone these skills for a bit, making various small apps, focusing on sheer problem-solution programming, and this job seems like the perfect opportunity to do that.

for me, the tech part is the most unnatural part of the job, because it requires such a narrow-minded focus. Communicating, collaborating, understanding what customers want, having a sense of good product design, all come naturally. But now i'm ready to work, so i'll just have to do it!

the other reason is simply because i'm naturally interested in other cultures, and thus learning languages, as i myself moved to Taiwan as an adult, and had to learn Chinese myself. Unfortunately, Rosetta Stone was pretty abysmal for it's time, and that was 10+ years ago, especially when compared to local language books and it's competitors: Assimil, Pimsluer, etc. It obviously needs a massive design update based on pedagogy, even the pedagogy of the 1950s. I really hope the Rosetta Stone plans to improve and change greatly, and not stay the stagnant software product that it is today.

anyway, just e-mail me, as my phone may not work in other countries. I will have to learn Spanish soon, but unfortunately, even i must opt for far suprioer alternatives like pimsleur, linguaphone, languagetransfer, etc. It would be great to learn languages while i re-design 'n re-factor Rosetta Stone at the same time. I'm personally at my best when travelling, and i'm sure if i try the products side-by-side, i'll immediately know exactly what works and what doesn't. It would be sooooo cool to make Rosetta Stone the best langauge-learning product! But honestly, in order to do that, IXL will have to embrace change... and from reading recent reviews, it needs a massive overhaul. At the moment, it's ancient like Encarta... but it doesn't have to be!
