heya.

i'm at a point in life where i'm coming back to America, specifically California, for the sole purpose of doing career-related work. I recently finished my trip exploring the coast of Cali by scooter(!!) and now am in San Diego/Baja Cali while i ponder upon some mid-life career directions..

i've been out of the tech world for some time, but recently, during my off-time while working at UC Berkeley (not tech-related), with just an old chromebook at hand, i discovered some newfound joy in computers again while searching for tools to make making games, gui apps, web apps more enjoyable (and i found them!: haxe/heaps, ruby/dragonruby, elixir/phoenix). The journey led me through a history of programming languages, linux, unix/terminals/shells, all the way back to the beginning with lisp/emacs 'n smalltalk'! It was a fun blast through the past. So now i'm trying to transition towards more general IT/software jobs, like this one.

in my lifetime, i've conceptualized many civic tech ideas, though with more anarchist values: mapping: property owners/landlords, histories of prosecutors, judges, 'n police, prisoner's neighborhoods to prisons; ways to see history: an AR app to show historical photos of the area around, from the small family businesses that used to be there all the way back to the animals, plants, 'n native people, mapping indigenous lands; ways to empower and build community: areas suitable for homesteading, to start a street vending business, for squatting; ways to build economic relations: a new craigslist/online market-place for sharing, caring, and loving. As a wanderer of the world, my mind doesn't stray far from reality, and so when i do go back to a computer screen, these ideas come naturally. It merges my past skills in tech with my later interests in building permaculture communities alongside nature. (related: i was accepted for a master's in design and tech at Parsons of The New School with an interest in similar directions, intersecting with much of MIT media lab's civic media center, but ultimately chose to explore the world and find my own way--)

This job is quite fitting for me as it mixes the visualization and interactivity of games with real data. I think i'd LOVE making little "tools" for biglocalnews in order to fill the gap of accessibility for visualizing data, a sort of "creative-coding" tool-set and guide for journalists (and perhaps some creative researchers!), similar to the gap that processing/p5.js and openframeworks filled in the past for "creative tech" people (new media artists). Writing guides and making simple cli apps to scrape, ETL, then visualize data would be so sooo satisfying. Data could be visualized via standard scientific plot/graph libs, d3, p5, or maybe even simple game engines! Wow, i'm actually excited..! There's just so much that can be done.. Not just ancient plots 'n graphs used in academic papers, but the infinite ways to visualize through 2d and 3d graphics. I feel like there's just sooo much potential here. It's like empowering people to make little games, but using data from reality, yet still for very practical reasons! :) Finally, maybe all the time i spent looking for 2d game engines with good drawing apis 'n good performance will have a practical use! It would be sooo fun helping others make data visualizations, and even prototyping some ideas with my favorite game engines!! What a dream!!!

beyond the inital few pro tech jobs i did, most of my tech experience came from my passion for making games (including video games). As it only requires pure systems programming, i lack the contemporary large-scale web app pro work experience to compete in today's market, especially in the SF Bay Area: js frameworks, cloud computing / container orchestration, language modelling, software for massive scale. Thus i honestly only have a sliver of hope to catch a rare and niche job such as this one. Most recruiters just don't care about game-making.

my nature prefers the chaos of talking and supporting everyone in a community, whilst doing several tasks on several projects on my own, learning and doing a bit of everything. I think i'd be satisfied working at a small media production or startup where it's very DIY and where everyone does everything, but for big institutions like this, i think i could find a home in certain departments: game, film, new media, design, arts: humanities. It's where i belong in academia. I did computer science in order to make games, but i truly belong to the arts and humanities. It would be a pleasure to work within the department.

i saw the journalism site, and i realized, it combines my past passions for media (game, film, new media) with real stories. I'm amazed i never encountered journalism before, especially since i love documentary film. Reading the article on fentanyl and homelessness in SF is..interesting, having recently survived it.. I definitely would opt for short slice-of-life documentary film of a shelter resident and/or a person addicted to fentanyl to capture the reality, humanity, and nightmare of living in such terrible places.. honestly, i'd seriously have to think: how could quantitative data possibly communicate anything better than documentary film, without losing so much of reality..

i once made a little film about a food vendor: vimeo.com/55547982 . Not quite journalism, but my heart is there.

anyway, please just e-mail me, as i'll be getting another phone in Mexico!

ra
