heya.

i'm at a point in life where i'm coming back to America, specifically California, for the sole purpose of doing career-related work. I recently finished my trip exploring the coast of Cali, now stuck in Ocean Beach, San Diego, doing gig work down here in the warmth of the sun while i ponder upon some mid-life career directions..

normally i wouldn't even try to apply for a web app software engineer job. My tech experience mostly dealt with small video games and funky game 'n new media art installations made with esoteric game engines, frameworks, and languages, so i lack the contemporary large-scale web app skills most jobs want: countless js frameworks (front and back), cloud computing / container orchestration, etc. However, because my first ever tech job was as a .NET/ASP software dev, and because it left such a good impression on me, i still feel the comfort given working within the microsoft tech stack, and i've only heard it got better (core/entity)--heck, i even prefer powershell over the lunix shells! However, for my own web app ideas, i recently chose phoenix/elixir, as i really like ruby but missed out on the rails era, and 'cause i feel the functional paradigm and BEAM is a really neat solution specialized for web apps (not even including liveview). For a big business product, working with .NET sounds really chill. It's a very straight-forward standard language, albeit a bit clunky and complex nowawadays. A great swiss-knife. Re-writing legacy software into contemporary .NET sounds like the perfect way to get back into coding zen! And with github co-pilot now, i won't even have to sweat all the small nuances anymore, just focus on the larger architecture of things, which sounds quite blissful.

within a bigger tech team, i naturally belong to more generalist product roles: making--designing, developing, and maintaining products-- and talking--product manager, QA, customer success--, preferring to always have the big picture in mind from a far viewpoint, undestanding a bit of everything, conceptualizing and prototyping products, naturally communicating and collaborating with everyone, understanding what customers want, what they like aesthetically, what they love, having a sense of good product design (great-feeling controls, interaction, a sane user interface and experience), tinkerin on products, prioritizing the most obviously broken things and the lowest hanging fruit of features that would make customers happy, and constantly making the design better, inside 'n out. Programming is just the necessary means. When making games solo, both design and programming are so intertwined it's difficult to seperate the two jobs: the program is the design, and the design is the program; So i always feel the need to master both. After this job, i plan to transition to design a la design consultancy/agency, in addition to making my own products. But for the moment, as i'm just getting back into pro tech work, i don't mind getting dirty and doing some grunt work, for the purpose of learning contemporary web tech and web servers (systems admin, devops stuff) and honing core programming skill.

i'm hoping the university setting will allow some time to share some tools, knowledge, 'n skills with peers of various tech teams. It'd be nice to see the server folks 'n front-end folks, and it could be fun joining a ui/ux bootcamp/workshop or course. In addition, i'm interested in emergency medicine too, so it would be great to get some basic training there too. The front-end and server (cloud) stuff all are simple, but it'll be fun to learn 'n share together. :)

the only required qualification i'm missing is react/angular, and for my personal projects, i have no need. I'd rather try phoenix and see how far it goes with it's server-side concurrent rendering (live-view). In the worst case scenario, there's integrations with svelte, and even intertia.. but i haven't gotten that far, yet. I tend to keep my peronsal projects rather minimalistic, maintainable, simple. React and Angular are overkill.

anyway, after travelling down the coast of Cali, i now know for certain there is nothing that comes even close to the culture, geography, nature, 'n climate of Asia (save, perhaps, Hawaii and Puerto Rico), however, a university on a SoCal beach is surely the closest thing to it! :D

please just e-mail me, otherwise, you can try contacting this number: 415-535-8416 .

ra
