heya forest dweller,

i just finished a motorcycle trip down the coast of Cali, from Berkeley to San Diego, and now i'm more than ready to settle in for a bit 'n build a home! Of the places along the coast, Santa Cruz was the first place i felt: "this is the real California!": a small town community nestled between the ocean and mountains, a culture with a a propensity for nature, small businesses, traditional ways of life, communal bonfires on the beach, perhaps the closest thing to Taiwan i'll find here. I just pray it's not as foggy 'n cold as west SF!

i feel this job is quite fitting for me as i'm a community support person with childhood passions in digital media and a pretty broad albeit esoteric set of technical skills. I'm the sort of person that takes care of a public space (commune, event space, makerspace, farm-house, etc.), physically and socially: maintaining the physical space and its social relations, aiding others' projects, handling events, cooking, cleaning, 'n does whatever it takes to keep it going. In addition, i do the technical labors: from building maintenance to motorcycle maintenance to computers to farming to building primitive dwellings. I'm hoping providing support to a film 'n digital media department will be somewhat similar, just constricted to the scope of digital media arts, aiding the next generation of artists, perhaps closer to what i recently did at SF's Noisebridge makerspace.

my early focus on tech was towards physical interactions (alt controllers/inputs 'n alt outputs, game mods, etc.), as i yearned for more physical interaction in a more 'n more screen-oriented world, and simple 2d games, more so for quick proof of concepts, anything to quickly make funky, physical game experiences. I nearly did a master's (MFA) at Parson's/The New School for "design and technology" (DT), as i had a fantastic experience with the indie game scene in NYC, but ultimately, i chose to wander Asia instead, innately knowing there's more to the world than the urban world that is NYC and the digital world of contemporary times. That was absolutely the right choice. I left digital media for reality for a decade or so. Recently, upon coming back to the States, i stared at a computer once again, and i've finally taken the time to explore 'n survey all the existing tools 'n languages and chose dev tools that make me happy: elixir/phoenix for web 'n complex gui apps (though i still loathe web programming), game/media frameworks with imgui to quickly make apps, ruby for scripting, haxe for general-use. The things i made 'n wanted to make required me to do more systems programming than IT stuff. Only until recently did i ever use linux, linux terminals/cli, even vi 'n emacs.. And even then, it was mostly because all i had was a crappy chromebook (with a linux vm). I am certainly not a linux person. I also lack experience in a lot of things that large instutitions such as a university would likely use: primarily enterprise software that deals with networking 'n security, but also cloud computing (service and private), AI/machine learning, 'n so on. I just never worked for a big company, so i've personally never had the use for a lot of these things.. Like any artist, i solely focused on executing the idea, nothing more. It's a weak catch-22 dilemma. It's quite a different mind-set from IT folks, which i think the department will understand.. Also, i try to keep things simple, as it's often just me.. despite all that, i do find some joy in terminals, and the idea of jumping around servers, editing 'n automating stuff, writing scripts in ruby with emacs, scheduling processes: basically, posing as a hacker. :) I'm hoping the film/digital media department is a bit more simple/has DIY ethics, simple file servers, static sites, not too entrenched in various enterprise software.. but i'm sure i'll be fine even if it is..

looking at the preferred requirements, i've done nearly everything early in my lifetime: wordpress was the software i used to make my first blog in late middle school (my first writings were my thoughts on impactful films i'd seen; i since preserved it at mind.rathewolf.com after losing my eponymous domain), php 'n python in college (neither are useful for games, so i never had to use them again), unix/linux recently thanks to this crappy chromebook i travel with (arch and debian via lxc), a mobile AR app via Unity to help my friend finish a short contract, 'n so on. However, i don't have film-making experience, so i'm not familiar with film-making softare. When i tried, i just used an iphone with final cut (vimeo.com/55547982). I didn't feel like films had to be technical, which was rather releiving coming from indie games (and objective-C/iOS in particular). I haven't looked at databases for quite some time either, but recently, while trying phoenix web framework, i def had to jog my mind designing database tables, beyond that, however, the data objects were mapped 'n created auto-magically (like linq-to-sql or activerecord). I've honestly never done anything advanced with databases in my life (--games are usually simple enough to just store data in arrays 'n lists, and plain-text files--).. Anyway, the project is just a little web-site like letterboxd.com for games 'n digital media arts. It could be a fun little project to do with the kids there. :) Nothing fancy. I guess i tend to choose simpler ideas to execute, so nothing i do is really ever complex.. And i know i'm too impatient to make complex games anyway. ;)

films were very impactful and meaningful to me when i was young, and even served as a form of self-education for me in early high school--back when Netflix was new and shipped DVDs by the mail. I've always been quite dyslexic, more visual, so naturally i seeked out knowledge 'n wisdom through films 'n media, able to easily digest, analyze, and think at the comfort of my parent's suburban home. Films by Hirokazu Koreeda, Hou Xiao Xian, Jia Zhang-ke, mostly "neo-realism", all helped me find my own identity in the cultural vacuum of American suburbia, helped me understand humans a bit more, allowed me to explore the world from my parent's home, all-the-while provoking some ethical thoughts via drama form. If i were to have taken the film route when i was young, i would've followed Chris Marker's form of expression: a lone film essayist; and Vincent Moon, a lone street documenter of the very different cultures of the world. In my adult life i moved to and made Taiwan my home. I never got to document the beautiful, strong women that live tough, traditional lives: I was too busy living with them, and the next generation of back-to-countryside kids. Now, the pandemic sent me back to the States, and so i'm just trying to find a place in the US to set roots in, in case of more future disasters..

anyway, i can't really think of a place on the west coast more fitting than this (San Diego may be too big..). That valley above, near Felton, looks beautiful, even reminds me of the lush, rainy areas of northern Taiwan. It would be a dream to take care of the land up there, take care of the town-community, as well as take care of the students in the entire department, and collaborators in other departments. Social documentaries sounds like my jam, and i imagine many other Asians would likely take this direction too, out of sheer empathy and care for people and their cultures. I saw the world as a child through games and films, from final fantasy to international films. Games and films were my biggest passions growing up, so it's a wild coincidence to me that UCSC even has such a department, one that combines both. Recently, i was at Noisebridge hackerspace, and though my interest in tech has greatly waned (they were more into current trends: AI, etc.), i still somewhat enjoyed sharing knowledge, helping others on their projects, and maintaining the space--only somewhat because it lacked the nature/permaculture/country-side sides of life. I hope i can do the same for the department. After that, i worked at UC Berkeley over the past summer, just as a temporary laborer, and i now know for certain that a research college that snatches all the joy off the faces of its pure-hearted international students, whilst robbing them of their money, is not for me. I'm willing to give a uni job a second try, but this time at a far more liberal arts/humanities-leaning place, a place that prioritizes a variety of ways of living as opposed to narrow-minded politics and STEM, a place i can call another home. Half of my housemates at Berkeley were from UCSC, all queer phd-pursuing philosophers. They informed me that Santa Cruz, the town and the university, is far more radical, and that i'd like it more. I could be wrong again, but after seeing much of the coast, i now know there are surprisingly so few small country/nature-side towns on this side of the world. I've gotta try.

ra
