

heyo.

i've just been dreaming about New York ever since i left. I was only there for a short time, maybe only 6 months, around 2012-2013, but it's a memorable impression that i cannot seem to forget, one that keeps drip-dropping back.

long, long ago, i applied to the design and tech MFA program, and i was surprised to get a half-scholarship for merit.., but it still wasn't enough, and besides, my mind was in another part of the world, one that costs a fraction. To this day, I'm still very grateful for that acceptance, of accepting me, a wild youth, all over the place.. still am. :D

lifetimes have since passed, and now i'm coming back from living in Asia (mostly Taiwan!! <3), just looking to make a base somewhere in America so that i have another home to come back to. At the moment i'm in California, exploring the coast for ideal small towns. I rode down the coast from SF to SD (by scooter!), and yet, all of the urban areas fail to create what NY has in abundance: something that requires a special recipe of a certain kind of people, urban material, 'n climate, something that doesn't seem to manifest anywhere here in California: a highly-sociable culture in a dense area. I've been yearning for the social aspects of NY, especially the DIY arts scene 'n spaces (the old kent 285 / death by audio / silent barn), but also the cultural immigrant aspects of Queens (flushing / jackson heights / jamaica). I've been yearning for life.

i merely apply as a nudge to go back, as another start to NY. Then, surely, i'll naturally navigate my way back into the depths of NY again, as i did nearly 15 years ago.

to this day, i am certain no other place in the world has a better game-making community--and probably film-making community too (especially documentary, realism)!., in addition to graffiti, comedy, music, and many other performance arts. It even may have the greatest amount of Taiwanese people! And possibly the greatest Asian and African diversity in such close quarters..

many of my NY game-making, film-making, and game-art-organizing friends (babycastles) at the time were linked to many insitutions: Parson's, NYU (Tisch ITP, Game Center, Frank Lantz), Eyebeam, School of Poetic Computation, Columbia, etc. But also equally, many were not. They took the artist route, found ways to express themselves through various art spaces 'n channels. And gratefully, NY supported both, the schools 'n the streets.

beyond Santa Cruz, including UCSC (which has a game and film dept, and the most rad kids too), i just see no other option for me on this side of America. And SC is very limited, by housing and diversity (along with San Diego). NY, on the other hand, is limitless!

recently i've even been feeling so pidgeon-holed by local industry that i've been thinking of just trying a hand at boring web dev startup work in SF, but even within the startup world, i've noticed (through Y-combinator) that the startup products that come out of NY are more fun, social, energetic, human, cognizant of a healthy social life, a reflection of NY itself!

anyway, pleeease sign me up for any software support (generalist), community support, student support, space maintenance jobs. I'm a bit of an old, slow, zen community supporter now, but i think NY will push me once i'm there. :)
