
heyo!
    
i'm at a point in life where i'm coming back to America, specifically California, to find a small town with some small-town-love i can come back to, so that i always have some place in America i can call home. I'm now stuck in Santa Barbara, about to restart life either here in nearby UCSB/Isla Vista or back in Long Beach, hoping to catch a break with this mid-life career direction!.. if not, i'll be still here cooking some yummy food from Asia.. :)

within a tech company, i naturally belong to a more generalist product maintainer role, preferring to always have the big picture in mind from a far viewpoint, naturally communicating, collaborating, building up my own little tool-kit (even better if it's a dynamic ruby/C machine!), understanding what customers want, having a sense of practical product design (great-feeling controls, interaction, a sane user interface and experience), prioritizing the most obviously broken things and the lowest hanging fruit of features that would make customers happy, and constantly improving the dewsign based on the customer's perspective, inside 'n out.

however, this job, as a support engineer, also befits the community-supporting, generalist knowledge gathering,  eternally-wondering side of my personality, serving as the perfect starting role: helping customers and co-workers with tech stuff, documenting everything (better if in org-mode!), sifting/talking on the slack channels (or an llm with all that chat data..), doing whatever's necessary and being everwhere all-at-once, working from the problems up, jumping in the code to see what's going on/wrong, slowly getting the gist of the big pictures--the work, product, code-base, computer concepts, and existence!--.. and all of this, remotely..?? That doesn't just sound like my dream job, that IS my dream job!

gitlab interests me for many reasons. First, i'm quite fond of ruby, the programming language, and think i'd actually enjoy working with a massive ruby code-base. Next, i was going to mention my history with SF.., but when i came back, it def resembled more of a post-gold-rush ghost-town.. Lastly, Taiwan has been my home for nearly a decade now, so if it's even *remotely* possible to work from there, it would be my life's dream: to be able to live and work from true home (note: i'm still a US citizen).. ah!.. i forgot another reason: it's not owned by M$! rip github.

now to be blunt about why i maybe not be fit for the job.. the main problem i envision in regard to my capacity to do the work is that: i'm simply not a linux person. Though, i'm no stranger either: These past few years i have lived off an ancient chromebook for travel, mostly within the linux container (default: debian), limited to the terminal/no-DE (via: vm/lxc, wsl, vps). The arch-wiki was my main learning resource/guide. But even then, after just a brief time, i quickly tossed out the whole unix idea (text streams as communication/pipes between small programs using ancient bash shell scripts) for emacs (--i'll happily trash github desktop for magit soon enough..!--), and happily back to windows/wsl/scoop once i got a real laptop. I think this happened naturally because i grew up with windows (and games!), where things just worked, and i didn't have to (nor did i have interest to) constantly fight with my computer. Even during my CS degree, it was mostly taught via stand-alone compilable C++ programs. And after that, when i got into making my own games during my prime, it too was a very "systems-y" approach to dev--you know, just a simple, single packaged app that you can double-click to run, that's it. Thus, i must confess: i'm no master of linux, especially its various gui/desktop-environments. And now, with the advent of ai, i feel it may often be just as easy, and definitely more simple and maintainable, to just solve problems with a general programming langauge, and possibly a simple web app (if a gui is required)! 

in addition to my lack of experience with the linux world, i lack contemporary web experience (perhaps due to similar reasons..!). Thus, dealing with all the crap that comes with setting-up and using pop web dynamic/scripting langauges, version managers, package managers, shell commands 'n bash scripts, js frameworks, etc. dependency-hells are all things rather new/recent to me (within the past two years), problems that i feel nix/OS solves by further complicating the original mess. Thus, i also lack experience in a lot of the things that may be found in a gitlab ci/cd/pipeline/"devops" thing to deploy a web-site, such as: cloud deployment / container orchestration, config management, etc. It's not a skill problem, but it is indeed a knowledge gap that i've intentionally avoided much of my life.. I guess it's just a different world on the other side of "systems dev".. yikes!

now having just doo-doo'ed all over linux and web dev, one big exception to those dumpster fires is that i still <3 ruby (and possibly elixir too..). I'm often enamored by the code that runs github (and discord!), even recently, as they added a code/symbol search gui on the right side (it's react, but still..). Even the little gems, like linguist, which utterly simply guesses which language a file is, and the crawler that runs it. I just think it would be really cool and *comforting* to work at place that uses a language i can easily and quickly read and grasp: from small daily scripts/tasks to bigger dynamic run-time tool apps to the massive rails app that is gitlab, along with whatever compiled and/or concurrent languages were used for specific components. Thus this job seems to fit both my supportive nature and my generalist interests in programming, being able to see all the little machines at work, and maybe eventually becoming a scrappy little ad-hoc ruby scripting machine myself!

i really do find the small-scale tools dev aspect (and possibly the dev-ops route) fascinating, precisely because it's all-over-the-place, requiring broad tech knowledge, but also because it's rather autonomous: quickly writing small programs 'n scripts, building tool apps (such as the examples provided: a "detective", slack bot/integration, streamlit web gen'd app--though i'm quite wary of web frameworks..), scheduling them all to run, writing small visualization/web apps (or games..), automating stuff (server deployment), jumping around servers in terminals/emacs: basically, *posing as a hacker*.. it all sounds far more fun to me than sheer 8-hour-a-day software dev roles (both web and systems!), as i like the change, like jumping around tasks, like doing a bit of everything. Dabbling with various little programs written in various languages, while spending most of the time verbally communicating and supporting others is a healthy balance for me. I very much need that social side.. as you perhaps can already tell.. :)

though i haven't been doing much programming lately (save some emacs lisp-fu..), i have been re/searching/comparing the main concepts of past programming languages, text editors, and game engines for quite some time now (itselves "tools"), first so that i can choose and use a few for my own games 'n apps, now that i'm old and prefer comfort (or at least not objective-c), but also just out of natural want of better designed tools in the world. Only recently, after having peered into jai, a language by a great game maker, did i give up on that journey. Jai is a very very well-designed language (nelua looks good too!), and i'm guessing his game engine is too. So, now i can finally put the big endevours down to rest and happily focus on getting back into some good ol' game making again(!) :D, starting with dragonruby--a really rad mruby fork and 2d game engine!! That is all to say: despite my past decade living an entirely different life in rural Asia, i think i still got the passions for designing tech tools within me.. as i'm quite partial to my memories of my American suburban childhood of playin' games with my friends 'n family.

so, to sum up: i'm not your average linux admin/devops/hacker/ai-monkey(?) on some riced out nix arch-linux thingy writing web apps in rails/phoenix all day, but if you can tolerate an older, simpler person, who prefers the more human side of life, and desires simpler tools, i'd be so so happy to do this kind of work! :)

do note: though i currently live in Cali, my parents live in Virginia, and i dream everyday to go back to Taiwan. I'm a computer person by night, so the former two would work really well for me, working a few hours later or a whole 12 hour later. Also of note: if i don't land a tech job anytime soon, i may take the master's/phd route starting next fall, either at UCSC (computational media) or Taiwan (area studies/ecology/native).. Last note!: my number is on google voice, so it's better to just e-mail me instead, as my phone numbers in the US are rather temporary..