
TODO: un-submitted, having second thoughts about a tech-only uni..
  - it's research labs are very STEMy, zero social/human concern/impact.. :/

heyo,

i'm back in America, and ever since i've been back, the rest of the world has been burning in my mind--particularly rural Asia, where i've spent so much time, and most recently Nepal and Indonesia!--, and so, i've had a deep desire to be around an international community, especially one that is passionate about making practical impacts to the entire world--otherwise, i'd be back in my old little Mitsubishi van in Taiwan dealing with local grassroots org problems! :)

when i got back, i landed in SF, at it's most dystopian time.. I escaped to Berkeley for a summer stint, and it was somehow worse. I then rode a motor-bike down the coast, and honestly, it actually got me missing the south-east-side of America, actual weather (precipitation, seasons, humidity), dense urban areas.. real people. I've gotten acclimated to the hot, humid mess of sub-tropical Taiwan, and recently, i've even feelin' nostalgic about my childhood summer breaks in VA Beach!

for a long time now, i've wanted to do computer admin/support work, particularly being *that computer person* for a humanities/new media arts/ecological department, as those are my people, and as i'd have complete power to choose or write my own simple solutions (and maintain them), in order to aid others. Additionally, i'm quite interested in supporting researchers too, as it seems to involve malleable linux infrastructure and a very straight-forward, pragmatic style of systems programming that i can dig: python/C scripts with a basic generated gui. Unfortunately, my game making background doesn't seem to help much in the new world of distributed-computing and ai, save the core systems-programming part. Yet, i'm certain systems admin combined with support dev roles within academia is one of the best techinical paths for me here in the "developed" world, and def the right place to be, even after nearly a decade of living in Asia.

i intend to keep my grassroots permaculture family 'n life in Asia forever, but i also would like to have/build a passionate, progressive community here in America too, just with more technical means and more impactful ends. Though i naturally belong in the grassroots communities near nature (i severely miss the island life..), i think i'd flourish in an academic setting too, cooperating and supporting others within communal spaces, as i've always done--just replacing grassroots art/ecological/anarchistic folks with institutionalized academic folks. I think it's worth trying both ways of life, and see where mutual aid can occur. Besides, i am the only one in my peer/social group that: is able to tolerate and work with a deeply western and institutionalized way of thinking, is [high-]tech-savvy, and thus has the highest potential to collaborate. My friends live in an entirely different world with a different world-view.

recently, while in permaculture-land and here in America, i went through a fun 70's programming phase of terminals/shells/scripting/linux/etc., ultimately leading to emacs 'n ruby/dragonruby (and soon jai and possibly elixir/phoenix too). I really enjoy hopping around servers, repos, editing files, using little cli programs, just straight getting stuff done. Also recently, i've surveyed the land of programming languages (especially for game-dev) and gui/app/web/game solutions too, as i personally intend to continue to make games 'n [web] apps on my own. There's some satisfaction i get in solving problems simply, and choosing the right simple tools (: langs, libs, programs, and products), and i'm trying to continue on that rather broad, generalist path, of being able to make anything, and do it well, and be highly maintainable. Though i've got my own tastes in things (and an interest in language design), i really like that unis tend to use the old things that work: python (streamlit), java (spring boot), R, C, etc. Far from my favorites, but i envision myself becoming an old, angry farmer, with a trusty old set of tools..

i've done some work when i got out of school: a "startup" before i knew about the word in my home-town in VA, a stereotypical useless tech company near silicon valley, but after that, it's just been small games with friends, all multi-player, on: iOS (multi-device), pc/console, and various physical arcade setups--particularly fond of the more physical alt i/o. From my fist job, i learned constant app dev would bore and burn me out. From my second job, i learned silicon valley (+sf) is just a linkedin cesspool. By avoiding a MFA degree, i learned my art-loving soul wouldn't be able to stomach design contracts for terrible corporations. Lastly, the lonely experience of making that iOS game with objective-c/x-code/device made me quit tech for-seemingly-ever. So, this is really the only route i can think of.. to become an emacs wizard (now with ai) for academia, in 2025! Please tell me it's not too late..! ;)

TODO:
The place was like a mini-school, with groups/meetups on: intro to programming, infra, robotics/vision, and even finance bros building stock market llm's to compete. So, despite living a totally different life, i think i've still got the technical passions within me, it's just that i'm usually motivated by purely personal/friend artistic or grassroots-communal passions/pursuits, as opposed to academic/scientific pursuits; Yet, even if those passions don't overlap with the scientific enterprise, at least they share tech skills.

since i've never held a servers admin job, i've only been able to play with my web server, meaning, i absolutely lack systems dev experience, most notably security, but also even with config management (ansible, etc.) and distributed computing (on-prem and cloud--beyond my free GCP $--and definitely HPCs/slurm). Noisebridge had a few servers to play with, and even a nice little infrastructure meetup where people would share things like terminal tricks, self-inflicted pain of the nixOS-life, dev experience on linux kernal, and praise for tailscale, but even most of their experience came from working at a computer lab in Berkeley..

anyway, it's a long shot, but just let me know via e-mail.. i'll begin heading back up the cali coast next week via motorcycle, stopping by the campuses i'm most interested in on my way (: ucla, santa barbara, santa cruz), transitioning to van-life asap, and thus free to move anywhere, and get an even bigger picture of America.

if i stay in Cali, i'd aim for the computational studies (MS) at UC Santa Cruz (it seems they've deduced MIT's media lab into actual research), but it'll be another year 'til then.. and i'd much rather just do some tech work now! And besides, GT (--all of georgia's unis, really--) and ATL both sound so lively(!!), and humble, and down-to-earth, and hospitable, and.. not too far from the mountains!?!?


ra
