heyo,

i'll try to keep this short..

i remember stumbling upon this somehow, likely looking at unis to work at, then quickly realizing how incredibly dull and narrow-minded unis are, with their bureacracies, narrow-focus on STEM, waste of physical effort, terrible dorms, bad food, stupid building/architecture codes, and so on.. and the horror of working at such a place, when i've lived such a wonderful life for so long abroad..

i've recently come back to America, after living in Asia for quite some time, now trying to figure out some way to live in America while retaining that great travel state-of-mind i've had in Asia. I'm getting there.. i think. At least i now understand a car/van is freedom in America, especially Cali, so i'll be entering van-life soon. This'll enable me to get a bigger picture of the coasts of America, starting with Cali. I've finished going down the coast on a Vespa i found on craigslist in SF, and was planning to go back up, checking out a few college-towns (ucla, ucsb, ucsc) to potentially live 'n work at for a bit, to try to refresh my computer career and create some roots to the land here.. but my god, it feels like i've gone back to the 60's upon entering LA / "SoCal". Anyway, all that is to say: Minerva seems light-years ahead of all of that, or at least contemporary.

after i saved some mone after my first "pro" job, i went from SF-NY<3-SF-Asia (south-east, south, east), ending with Taiwan, which is where my trip through Asia started. Eventually i ended finding my people in the nature-loving grassroots orgs of the southern, rural towns. I love everything about that place: the island, cultures--oh so much and many!!--, climate... i feel like i've lived several life-times there already.. I don't even want to think about how my life would've been had i not travelled.. had i not discovered riding a motorcycle.. had i not learned to love everyone.. eternally in suburbia!? cynical?

early on during my travels i met an even wilder friend, who was chasing the protests (2014?) through several countries.. Let's say he was interested in politics. :) At the time, he was simultaneously attending some online university (perhaps in europe? as he's swiss national.. OU?). So, here he is, travelling though Asia, waking up at a hostel, doing some course-work, then going through some town or jungle, chatting with travelers, locals, friends, family, eating fresh food.. all at the cost of a fraction of living in America (don't make me add tuition..!).

One day he put me on to "the great books" podcast lecture series. That was a real trip, as i had been consuming reality for a long time before that, without organizing it verbally. I had some really deep thoughts while listening to that stuff, as i'd never taken a philosophy class or anything. It was a really manic way to learn anything, but broad, deep, personal. Later, i stumbled upon a bookstore in Taipei where i skimmed the entire western philosophy section, reading a history of it (bertrand russell, surely some others), some actual history via Sapiens, and going through the DK books, burned my mind trying to make sense of reality, yet fight off the stupidity of 99% of the books there, and never went back again. Around that time that audiobook method worked for learning Chinese too, as their teaching grammar books come with an audiobook (though i'm certain my friend knew about pimsleur and asimil methods).. All of it were awesome experiences, as everything was a personal experience, of my own volition.

so yeah, i do think this study abroad thing works--what's more energizing than living in another country with a passionate group of people that genuinely want to learn? heck yeah!

i'd be down for this.

anyone who applies to minvera is surely a beautiful soul.

earlier i was reading about "deep springs college"... that might be a bit much, lol, yet still a far more incredible experience than any standard uni experience..

i've applied to a few "computer person" jobs at the public unis in Cali, as Cali has some pretty ideal locations for a person spoiled by island life, particularly santa barbara and santa cruz... but you know what's even better? Not tying time to space, and working remotely! ;)

just e-mail me back. I begin going back up the coast early this week, after i do some maintenance on the scooter. Hopefully i'll remember to try to get another sim card too..
