
heyo,

i'm back in America, and ever since i've been back, the rest of the world has been burning in my mind--particularly rural Asia, where i've spent much time-- and more recently Nepal and Indonesia!--, and so, i've had a deep desire to be around an international community, especially one that is passionate about making practical impacts to the entire world--otherwise, i'd be back in my old little Mitsubishi van in Taiwan dealing with local grassroots org problems! :)

though i was aiming for a sys admin / support dev job, this one peaked my interest. I haven't taught pure programming/python before, but i've organized and run a few game-making workshops and game jams during my life-time when i was more passionate about that stuff, including a workshop in my parent's hometown in India and a few jams Taiwan. My freinds and i used game engines that used some visual gui language, yet had scripting capabilites when one hits the gui's limits. It's always surprising how much people can make in a single weekend.. More recently, at Noisebridge, there was a guy from Google/Youtube teaching python + web programming via Flask. I'd often try make space in the messy electronics room for the class, and some-times sit in, to see how people learn programming for the first time, at all ages. Though it definitely took 10x more time, people seemed to be able to grasp quite a lot of concepts in a sequential fashion too.., at least much quicker than my first CS class, in C++, with a big fat yellow C++ reference book that could be mistaken for the yellow pages, one that weeded an entire lecture hall full of freshman out! Unfortunately, unlike my most of game dev friends, i somehow didn't stumble upon making Flash games until much later.

anyway, as i may end up doing some support dev for researchers in my near future, i might as well just master the art of teaching basic programming, help polish the course to perfection, and relieve my future self from some tedious work! ;)

i've never heard about the class, but it sounds great (--i think it was Harvard's CS50 class that gets thrown around on internet.. which would be worth trying as a teacher..). It provides the much needed social element to learning something so non-social (talking to a computer)--which is what i'd guess blocks so many from learning--and even crowd-sources the teachers. It would be awesome to meet so many people around the world, talk, see what ideas/ambitions they've got going on, in all sorts of langauges! There's so much passion in children in the rest of the world for this kind of stuff.. especially from places like India, Brazil, South Africa.. remote places, where a kid just finds a computer fascinating and still has the innocence to dream big.

i haven't checked the course yet, but i imagine it would be simple to go from the basics via processing (a "creative" visual framework) to pygame (a game-framework), and very quickly program something sufficiently complex. Or maybe i'm biased for positive visual-feedback as a game-maker. ;)

the job itself honestly sounds like quite a lot of grunt management work (section leaders, teaching assistants, teaching materials, guidelines, policties, etc.), which honestly may grind against my rather loner DIY personality, but with so much great energy coming from all over the world, i can't imagine this job ever becoming sour. A free course should bring so much love and gratitude! And who knows, maybe i'll sneak in an educational programming course via game-making..! :D

teaching, i feel, can be such a qualitative thing.., and with so many different cultures around the world, i can't even fathom all the different ways their minds are approaching programming.. When i was in complete nature/rural-asia-living-mode, the only thing i'd want to use the computer for was to make things for the culture and world around me (in the languages used around me), nothing else. My mind didn't want to see a reailty beyond the culture i lived in. If i wrote software during that time, it must be able to be used by the rural/indigenous dwellers around me, otherwise, it's no use. Even if i wanted to make a game, it'd be in the culture i live in: games about farmer's/night markets, social relationships entrenched in a culture, in another language, in another geography, in another world. Who knows what the people around the world will make! I think that's the beauty of this job: somewhere, someone unique, someone with a very different mind, will make something, using their new-found programming skills.

ok, maybe i'm dreamin' again. my bad! :)

just let me know by e-mail, as i'll be ridin' up the coast to Santa Barbara as soon as i change my motorcycle's oil!

ra
