heyo,

i'm back in America, and what's been burning on my mind ever since i've been back has been the rest of the world--particularly rural asia, where i've spent much of my time--; hance, it sure would be nice to be able to focus on the rest of the world during my time in America.

though i didn't have the opportunity to study abroad, instead of pursuing a master's, i lived in SF and NY, then i lived in Asia--and really never stopped that travel-state-of-mind since! :) Early on, i did what i can along the way, from volunteering at refugee camps along the border of Thailand-Myanmar to joinin' a student at anti-protitution orgs in Malaysia to livin' with various indigenous 'n mountain peoples and witnessing how they politic (real politics), all on my own. I just took the DIY spirit of the NY DIY art scene with me and did what i can to help others within a certain time and place. It was a manic way of life, but incredible. Over time, my youthful black and white world-view flipped a bit, as the good food 'n cultures fed 'n nurtured my soul.

eventually, i ended up where i started my trip in Asia: in Taiwan, my first love. There it took quite some time wandering around until i ended up with the next-gen of hardy, loving, rural/farming women that know how to garden, cook, build homes, and use chinese medicine 'n practices to treat all sorts of ailments, conscious all the time, of their own health, the health of people, and the health of nature, all in a holistic way. I hope to go back asap, before shit goes down, but it would be nice to have some kind of connection to America, so that i have a home away from home, and a place to organize all those wild past lifetimes i've lived.

this department sounds like the place to be... my skills are in service and tech, and i can have an extremely practical nature--though now far more relaxed due to age--, and working here, i think it'll keep my mind grounded, heavily-restricted to pursuing projects that are actually useful, impactful, to my people in Taiwan, the rest of southeast Asia 'n the pacific, India, and beyond. It just doesn't make sense for me to search for or re-create grassroots permaculture org/network of friends all over again here in America (--though i'm def interested in wandering around the surrounding valleys, especially around nearby Santa Cruz..!). I'd rather simply join the academic pursuit here, master a few tech 'n academia skills, and keep my permaculture 'n village dreams in Taiwan and nearby surrounding lands.

when i came back to America, i first took on a job UC Berkeley over the previous summer, so i got to see how a public school operates, from the dirty side: as a cleaner, alongside the hard-working Chinese/Guangdong and Latina/Central American mothers; so now i'd like to try a private school, without the government bureacracy, and i hope, with more freedom and empowerment, and less bullshit work (in the Graeber sense :)).

this job seems rather technically simple, so maybe there will even be opportunities to automate some of it, write some simple scripts, or try some simpler software solutions.. If i do get the job, i'd def try to stay on top of tech while i'm there, and soak in all i can from the other departments. My end-goal is to be THE tech service person for a department, hopefully one that i truly care about, and this department seems very very promising as it deals with some of humananity's greatest problems, or at least the ones that can be solved. And if there happens to be any routes to make impactful software, my nature would be on top of that!.. but i think that's just common to the nature of Indian tech people, lol. ;)

just let me know.. i'll heading toward the coast again, from the suburban desert that is the San Gabriel Valley. I've basically concluded my trip down and up the coast of Cali (though i skipped santa cruz 'n ucsb/goleta), and am ready to work anywhere.. and would happily escape this desert to be back near some real nature, especially those mountain/hill forests!! ;)

ra
