heyo,

i'm back in America, and what's been burning on my mind is the rest of the world--particularly rural Asia, where i've spent much time--, and so, while i'm here, i've had a deep desire to be around an international community, especially one that is truly passionate about making practical impacts to the rest of the world.. otherwise, i'd be back in my old little Mitsubishi van in Taiwan dealing with local grassroots org problems! :)

for that reason, when i came back to America, i immediately took a job UC Berkeley over the last summer (2024). I got to see how a public school operates, from the dirty side: as a cleaner, alongside the Cantonese/Guangdong and Latina working mothers. It was rough, physically and socially draining, as i quicky realized there are no students there during the summer-time..!! So now, i'd like to try a private school, during the school year, without the government bureacracy, and i hope, with more freedom and empowerment, there'll be more grassroots-style self-motivated DIY folks, like the people i've been fortunate to live with throghout my adult life, all over the world, from NY to Asia.

by nature, i'm a space-supporting person: art/rad/permaculture/hippie/tech cultured spaces, whatever, as long as there are passionate people, i'm down for the cause! Supporting an academic space is rather quite ideal for me, as can be quite academic-natured too, though via a more lone philosopher, ecologically-minded route..

i must say, UC Berkeley's apartments were near unlivable, drenched in cleaning chemicals, barely providing water (a low-quality bottle-refilling-fountian on the ground floor of a building with a very busy elevator), and prohibiting cooking (which the Chinese students hilariously circumvented: rice cookers to save the day!). That's no way to treat anyone, especially people paying from another country! I'd hope Stanford's residential situation is a bit better..! And if not, hopefully i now have some power to make a difference. :)

during my life-time, i've personally lived and often worked through just about every co-living situation: motels (grew up here!), hostels full of travelers (20s), communes full of artists (cities), permaculture abodes, communes and communal spaces full of nature-lovers (rural/nature-side), family houses, outside: in parks, near farms, on the beach, whatever; in several countries throughout Asia and in American cities (NY, SF, LA). I love communal spaces. I love being around passionate people. I love supporting everyone. I love living with everyone physically beside me. But in the end, i do find a sense of peace having a decent room, and i think many of the students do too. I think i'd feel at home among the international students of Stanford, and would love to support them, hone a good-natured culture with them, as they do in the households of Taiwan.

as a bonus, i could probably automate, document, 'n re-organize all the software crap..--maybe keep an ai model with all the policies handy..?--and gladly share home-made food 'n drinks as often as i can. :)

my Chinese is conversational, Gujarati listenable, Spanish forgotten, and English, unfortunately, still unforgotten.

anyway, it's a long shot, but honestly my long history of co-living fares better than my computer career in today's market.. just let me know.. i'll be moving to LA city this week (near USC), from the desert that is the San Gabriel Valley (--where i didn't find my Taiwanese people ;( ). I've basically concluded my trip down and up the coast of Cali and am now ready and willing to work at any of these coastal Cali institutions, ready to live out my car, ready to save up some dough one last time before going back to Taiwan next summer, before who knows what'll happen.. :/ and would happily escape this desert to be back in the Bay, near some real, green nature again. :)

ra


