heyo,

i'm back in America, and ever since i've been back, the rest of the world has been burning in my mind--particularly rural asia, where i've spent much time--, and so, while i'm here, i've had a deep desire to be around an international community, especially one that is truly passionate about making practical impacts to the world.. otherwise, i'd be back in my old little Mitsubishi van in Taiwan dealing with local grassroots org problems! :)

for that reason, when i came back to America, i immediately took a job UC Berkeley over the previous summer. I got to see how a public school operates, from the dirty side: as a cleaner, alongside the Cantonese/Guangdong and Latina working mothers. It was rough, physically and socially draining, as i quicky realized there are no students there during the summer-time..! So now, i'd like to try a private school, during the school year, without the government bureaucracy, and i hope, with more freedom and empowerment, which'll attract more grassroots-style self-motivated DIY folks, like the people i've been fortunate to live with throughout my adult life, from all over the world.

for a long time now, i've wanted to do very generalist computer admin/support work, particularly being *that computer person* for a humanities/arts department (as those are my people, and as i'd have the power to choose/write simple solutions), including work for researchers as it involves a very straight-forward systems programming/scripting that i'm partial to. Unfortunately, my game making background doesn't seem to help much in the world of cloud-computing and ai, save the systems-programming/C part. Yet, i'm certain such a role within academia is def one of the best techinical paths for me here in the "developed" world, even after nearly a decade of living in rural Asia; This kind of supportive computer work comes natural to me. I'll still have my grassroots permaculture family 'n life in Asia, but i hope to have a passionate, progressive community here in America too, just with a more technical, bigger-picture world-view. Though i naturally belong near nature, i think i'd flourish in an academic setting too, cooperating and supporting others within a communal settings, as i've always done--just replacing artist/ecological folks with more academic/entrepeneur-oriented folks.

recently, i've gone through a 70's programming phase of terminals/scripting/linux/etc., ultimately leading to emacs 'n ruby/dragonruby (and soon elixir and jai too). I really enjoy hopping around servers, editing files, just straight coding, getting stuff done. I have some interest in programming language design too: the dev of haxe, jai, dragonruby, ruby impls, etc., though i concede to C/python for scientific needs. So, despite living a totally different life, i think i've still got the technical passions within me, it's just that in my past i was motivated purely by personal and communal artistic and anarchistic/grassroots-community passions.. instead of academic/scientific pursuits. I feel that those passions can overlap, at least technically.

note: i don't have a biology nor biotech background, thus i notably don't have these desired qualifications:
  - "Strong background in data science, or computational biology, especially in handling single-cell, spatial transcriptomics, or imaging data."
  - "Strong background in automatic data analyses tool development and deployment, distributed systems and others"

i just feel that research programming, for example the libs that show up under the "awesome omics" github repo, has a style of extremely straight-forward, simple, practical programming--often in a simple memory-managed scripting lang!--, that i really dig. Even when i went to college long long ago, i still remember making a simple http server with python (following RFC blah blah), and how simple it was, especially compared to the C++ pointer stuff we were taught to use in our very first CS course. I swear i'll keep the less practical (dragon)ruby game (and game-engine) making, elixir/pheonix functional web dev, emacs-lisp, and jai-game-making wildness to myself, or the game-making club. ;) For work, straight-forward python scripting, CLIs, and performance-oriented C is all i'd ever want, and a skill i really want to hone, as it's all also crucial to game programming as well. I'd have to catch up on some math/stats, especially for the data science bits, but it doesn't seem too bad.. Overall, it just seems like a solid, niche career path: supporting researchers, taking care of their code repos, mastering python, being familiar with pop distributed computing software (on-prem, cloud, and supercomputers), and understanding bits of science-tech (bio-tech, etc.) along the way..

anyway, it's a long shot, but just let me know.. i'll be moving to LA city this week (near USC) from the desert that is the San Gabriel Valley, but i've basically concluded my trip down and up the coast of Cali and am now ready and willing to work at one of these coastal Cali institutions, and would happily escape this desert to be back near some real, green nature again. :)

ra
