heyo,

i'm re-using the cover letter, updated for job req-id 107107 here.. this may be the only time in life where i'd commit to anything as long as two years... i tend to naturally do three month stints: jobs, projects, housing, and travels! but i don't think i'd get tired of simple programming, as it's a skill i want to master, and all the things that i can glean on while living near campus. I travelled Cali to now know for certain, that a coastal Cali campus(or near-coastal) is where i want to settle, and often come back to in the future.

i'm back in America, and ever since i've been back, the rest of the world has been burning in my mind--particularly rural asia, where i've spent much time--, and so, while i'm here, i've had a deep desire to be around an international community, especially one that is truly passionate about making practical impacts to the world.. otherwise, i'd be back in my old little Mitsubishi van in Taiwan dealing with local grassroots org problems! :)

for that reason, when i came back to America, i immediately took a job UC Berkeley over the last summer (2024). I got to see how a public school operates, from the dirty side: as a cleaner, alongside the hard-working Cantonese/Guangdong and Latina mothers. It was rough, physically and socially draining, as i quicky realized there are no students there during the summer-time!! So now i'd like to try again, in a different area, during the school year, without the government bureacracy, and i hope, with more freedom and empowerment, there'll be more grassroots-style self-motivated DIY folks, like the people i've been fortunate to live with throghout my adult life, from all over the world.

for a long time now, i've wanted to do computer admin/support work, particularly being *that computer person* for a humanities/arts department (as those are my people, and as i'd have the power to choose/write stupid simple, maintainable solutions) or possibly for researchers as it involves very straight-forward systems programming/scripting (C/python--unlike web!). Unfortunately, my game making background doesn't seem to help much in the world of cloud-computing and ai, save the systems-programming/C part. Yet, i'm certain systems admin and similar support dev roles within academia is def one of the best techinical paths for me here in the "developed" world, even after nearly a decade of living in rural Asia; I'd keep my grassroots permaculture family 'n life in Asia, but hope to have a passionate, progressive community here in America too, just with more academic/tech interests. Though i naturally belong near nature, i think i'd flourish in an academic setting, cooperating and supporting others within a communal settings, as i've always done--just replacing artist/ecological folks with more academic-oriented folks.

recently, i've gone through a 70's programming phase of terminals/scripting/linux/etc., ultimately leading to the esoteric emacs 'n ruby/dragonruby, and soon jai too. I really enjoy hopping around servers, editing files, just straight coding, getting stuff done. I have some interest in programming language design too: the dev of haxe, jai, dragonruby, ruby impls, etc., though i concede to C/python for scientific needs. So, despite living a totally different life, i think i've still got the technical passions within me, it's just that in my past i was motivated purely by communal artistic and grassroots-community or anarchistic passions.. as opposed to academic/scientific. Even if my past passions don't quite overlap well with the STEM world, they do technically.

note: i don't have a biology nor biotech background, thus i notably don't have these desired qualifications:
  - "Strong background in data science, or computational biology, especially in handling single-cell, spatial transcriptomics, or imaging data."
  - "Strong background in automatic data analyses tool development and deployment, distributed systems and others"

i just feel that research programming, for example the libs that show up under the "awesome omics" github repo, along with simple gui solutions such as streamlit, has a style of extremely straight-forward, simple, practical programming--often memory-managed scripting!--, which is a style that i really, really dig: no non-sense, just do it. Even when i went to college long long ago, i still remember making a simple http server with python (following RFC blah blah), and still rememeber how simple it was (especially compared to the C++ pointer stuff we were taught to use before that..). I swear i'll keep the more abstract (dragon)ruby game engine making, elixir/pheonix functional web dev, emacs-lisp, and jai-game-making wildness to myself. ;) For work, straight-forward python scripting, basic CLIs 'n GUIs, and performance-oriented C is all i'd ever want, and a skill i really want to hone 'n master, as it's such a fundamental, optimal way to write programs. I'd have to catch up on some math/stats, biology, but it doesn't seem too bad.. Overall, it just seems like a really straight-forward, somewhat niche career path: supporting researchers, taking care of their code repos, mastering python, running it all on distributed networks (on-prem, cloud, supercomputers?), and who knows, maybe i can make some data visualization to fulfill my gaming/visual passions too!

anyway, it's a long shot, but just let me know.. i'll be moving to LA city this week (near USC) from the desert that is the San Gabriel Valley, but i've basically concluded my trip down and up the coast of Cali and am now ready and willing to work at one of these coastal Cali institutions, ready to live out my car... and would happily escape this desert to be back in the Bay, near some real, green nature again. :)

ra
