
heyo,

i'm back in America, and ever since i've been back, the rest of the world has been burning in my mind--particularly rural Asia, where i've spent much time--, and so, i've had a deep desire to be around an international community, especially one that is passionate about making practical impacts to the entire world--otherwise, i'd be back in my old little Mitsubishi van in Taiwan dealing with local grassroots org problems! :)

for that reason, when i came back to America, i immediately took a job at UC Berkeley over the last summer (2024). There, i got to see how a public school operates, from the dirty side: as a cleaner, alongside hard-working Chinese (Guangdong) and Latina (Central America) mothers. It was rough, physically and socially draining, as i quicky realized there are no students there during the summer-time..! (Though, i am now even more grateful to have some skill--heck, even just the ability to communicate in English!: the language barrier is indeed real..) So now i'm givin' it another shot, during the school year, willing to try another area (--sorry Berkeley.. :/). Though Davis's location def isn't ideal, i've heard that it has the most quaint little college-town vibe, and best of all: bike culture!! :D

for a long time now, i've wanted to do computer admin/support work, particularly being *that computer person* for a humanities/arts/ecological department, as those are my people and as i'd have the power to choose/write my own simple solutions and/or for researchers too, as it seems to involve a very pragmatic style of systems programming/scripting that i really like (simple C/python scripts with a simple gui vs endless over-architected web frameworks). Unfortunately, my game making background doesn't seem to help much in the new world of cloud-computing and ai nor even in systems administration, save the core systems-programming part. Yet, i'm certain systems admin combined with support dev roles within academia is one of the best techinical paths for me here in the "developed" world, and def the right place to be, even after nearly a decade of living in Asia; I intend to keep my grassroots permaculture family 'n life in Asia forever, but i also would like to have/build a passionate, progressive community here in America too, just with more technical means and academic ends. Though i naturally belong in the grassroots communities near nature (i will severely miss the island life..), i think i'd flourish in an academic setting too, cooperating and supporting others within communal spaces, as i've always done--just replacing grassroots artist/ecological/anarchistic folks with institutionalized academic folks. I think it's worth trying both ways of life, and see where they connect. Besides, i am the only one in my social network that is able to tolerate such a deeply western and institutionalized way of thinking, the only [high-]tech-savvy one, and thus the one with the highest potential to make profit. My friends live on the edge, every-day. One bad cop, law suit, or health problem, and it's over. I hope to provide a little safety net.

recently, while in permaculture-land and here in America, i went through a fun 70's programming phase of terminals/shells/scripting/linux/etc., ultimately leading to emacs 'n ruby/dragonruby (and soon jai and possibly elixir/phoenix too). I really enjoy hopping around servers, repos, editing files, using little cli programs, just straight getting stuff done. Also recently, i've surveyed the land of programming languages (especially for game-dev) and gui/app/web/game solutions too, as i personally intend to continue to make games 'n web apps on my own. There's some satisfaction i get in solving problems simply, and choosing the right simple tools (: langs, libs, programs, and products), and i hope continue on that rather broad, generalist path. More recently, when i was at Noisebridge, the folks at the infrastructure meetup shared their self-inflicted-pain of linux dev and managing NixOS configs on their personal machine, and my mentor at the space, tipped me on TailScale. So, despite living a totally different life, i think i've still got the technical passions within me, it's just that i'm usually motivated by purely personal and/or communal artistic or grassroots-community passions/pursuits: not academic/scientific; Yet, even if those passions don't overlap with the scientific enterprise, at least they share tech skills: systems programming and general systems admin.

the jobs seems rather technically straight-forward, yet i still do not have this little bit listed in the minimum qualifications:
"securely configuring and maintaing systems in accordance to IT security policies and frameworks such as UC IS-3, CIS Benchmarks, NIST/ISO standards, etc.", as i usually only deal with my single personal web server, rarely cloud/GCP ($), or at most, a few local (or remote, hidden in a wall somewhere.. lol) servers at a place like Noisebridge, which has no such policies.

i also do not have the following preferred qualifications:
"IBM BigFix" (--strangely uses "ActionScript"..? which i'm very familiar with, unless it's something different from Adobe's..)
~"common research software, such as: MatLab, SPSS, SAS, Stata" (not since i was in college)
any IT certifications (i took the indie software dev route)

anyway, just let me know.. i'll begin heading up the coast next week via motorcycle, stopping by campuses on my way (: ucla, santa barbara, santa cruz), escaping the desert that is the San Gabriel Valley. I've concluded my trip down Cali and am now certain, ready, and willing to work at any one of these great Cali institutions.. and would happily escape these suburbs to be back in a place with some.. passionate energy! (though, i'm a bit scared of entering yet another desert.. :|)

ra
