
NOTE: i edited a little more in the little text box before submitting it. Also, as it was the second-last day to submit, this could've used some more editing..!!

heyo,

i'm back in America, and ever since i've been back, the rest of the world has been burning in my mind--particularly rural Asia, where i've spent so much time--and most recently the news in Nepal and Indonesia too--, and so, i've had a deep desire to be around an international community, especially one that is passionate about making practical impacts to the entire world--otherwise, i'd be back in my old little Mitsubishi van in Taiwan dealing with local grassroots org problems! :)

when i got back, i landed in SF, at it's most dystopian time: where fentanyl-doped people walked along-side autonomous cars. Luckily, noisebridge survived the past decade, where i was able to witness a bit of today's tech, yet be attached to the reality of the streets. The place was like a mini-school, with groups/meetups on: infrastructure, robotics/vision, mmo browser games populated by ai agents, and even finance bros building stock market llm's to compete. So, despite living a totally different life, i think i've still got the technical passions within me, it's just that i'm usually motivated by purely personal/friend artistic or grassroots-communal passions/pursuits, as opposed to academic/scientific pursuits; Yet, even if those passions don't overlap with the scientific enterprise, at least they share tech skills.

for a long time now, i've wanted to do computer admin/support work, particularly being *that computer person* for a humanities department, as those are my people, and as i'd have complete power to choose or write my own simple solutions (and maintain them), in order to aid others. Additionally, i'm quite interested in supporting researchers too, as it seems to involve malleable linux infrastructure and a very straight-forward, pragmatic style of systems programming that i can dig: python/C scripts with a basic generated gui. Unfortunately, my game making background doesn't seem to help much in the new world of distributed-computing and ai, save the core systems-programming part. Yet, i'm certain generalist support dev/admin/devops roles is one of the best techinical paths for me here in the "developed" world, and def the right place to be, even after nearly a decade of living in Asia.

i intend to keep my grassroots permaculture family 'n life in Asia forever, but i also would like to have/build a passionate, progressive community here in America too, just with more technical means and more impactful ends. Though i naturally belong in the grassroots communities near nature (i severely miss the island life..), i think i'd flourish in an academic setting too, cooperating and supporting others within communal spaces, as i've always done--just replacing grassroots art/ecological/anarchistic folks with more institutionalized academic folks. I think it's worth trying both ways of life, and see where mutual aid can occur.

recently, while in permaculture-land and here in America, i went through a fun 70's programming phase of terminals/shells/scripting/linux/etc., ultimately leading to emacs 'n ruby/dragonruby (and soon jai and possibly elixir/phoenix too). I really enjoy hopping around servers, repos, editing files, using little cli programs, just straight getting stuff done. Also recently, i've surveyed the land of programming languages (especially for game-dev) and gui/app/web/game solutions too, as i personally intend to continue to make games 'n [web] apps on my own. There's some satisfaction i get in solving problems simply, and choosing the right simple tools (: langs, libs, programs, and products), and i'm trying to continue on that rather broad, generalist path, of being able to make anything, and do it well, and be highly maintainable. Though i've got my own tastes in things (and an interest in language design), i really like that unis tend to use the old and simple things that work: python (streamlit), java libs, R, C, etc. Far from my favorites, but i envision myself becoming an old, angry farmer, with a trusty old set of tools.. and it would be awesome to get a broad understanding of how everything's running over there.

however, i must say i am not a crazy linux person, would never use nix or gentoo personally. I'm the lazy sort, that simply prefers things working without config, customization, etc. So, i must forewarn you, i certainly lack the understanding of linux's inner workings compared to linux lovers.

i've done some work when i got out of school: a "startup" before i knew about the word in my home-town in VA, a stereotypical useless tech company near silicon valley, but after that, it's just been small games with friends, all multi-player, on: iOS (multi-device), pc/console, and various physical arcade setups--particularly fond of the more physical alt i/o. From my fist job, i learned constant app dev would bore and burn me out. From my second job, i learned silicon valley (+sf) is just a linkedin cesspool. By avoiding a MFA degree, i learned my art-loving soul wouldn't be able to stomach design contracts for terrible corporations. Lastly, the lonely experience of making that iOS game with objective-c/x-code/device made me quit tech for-seemingly-ever. So, this is really the only route i can think of.. to become an emacs wizard (now with ai) for academia, in 2025! Please tell me it's not too late..! ;)

anyway, it's a long shot, but just let me know via e-mail.. i'll begin heading back up the cali coast next week via motorcycle, likely crashing at santa barbara, transitioning to van-life asap, and thus free to move anywhere, and get an even bigger picture of America.

if i do stay in Cali, i'd aim for the computational studies (MS) at UC Santa Cruz, but it'll be another year 'til then.. and i'd much rather just do some tech work asap! ..The app just informed me this is an 18-month position..?? Ah well, i'll figure it out later!

ra


I escaped to Berkeley for a summer stint, and it was somehow worse. I then rode a motor-bike down the coast to get a bigger picture of the west, and America. Now i'm here, though about to move to Santa Barbara to huddle for the "winter".

since i've never held a servers admin job, i've only been able to play with my web server, meaning, i absolutely lack systems admin experience, most notably security, but also even with config management (ansible, etc.) and distributed computing (on-prem and cloud--beyond my free GCP $--and definitely HPCs/slurm). Noisebridge had a few servers to play with, and even a nice little infrastructure meetup where people would share things like terminal tricks, self-inflicted pain of the nixOS-life, dev experience on linux kernal, and praise for tailscale, but even most of their experience came from working at a computer lab in Berkeley..
