

heya,

this is very much a shot in the dark, and as i'm sure there's enough hackers 'n linux geeks lurking around the cs dept that'd really  really love this job, and whom are better suited for it than i am.

despite spending much of my time in 2024 hanging out at a hackerspace, and despite my closest friend and mentor there very likely being a very good one (in addition to being a great person), and also despite my favorite programming language being named haxe, i am no hacker, not at all. I'd rather hack at a guerilla garden :). My friend's got an eye for fire escapes, legal policy holes, and servers in literal hole-in-the-walls doin' god knows what, not me. I just happen to find some joy in digital interfaces: from language design (programming and human) 'n terminals to media io/game engines, slowly gathering related concepts, usually with a desire for better interface design. Thus, these more generalist devops/systems admin sort of jobs are appealing to me, as they can be all over the place.

i severely lack experience with the tech revolutions/gold-mines of my life-time: web, cloud, and ai, as i come from a far more humane world, particularly in rural Asia. Even within games, i prefer the more physical games. The ideal grad program/research for me in Cali is the computational media program at UCSC (with UCSB's MAT program in second). Yet, despite all that, this job's hard to resist. It sounds fun(!), like a protect the fort war-game, which'll force me to inhale a billion concepts, and just make stuff as needed. Though not my scene, i really like the DIY, independent, self-motiavated nature of hackers. I think they'd be fun to work with, to support, similar to artists.

i was just going through Giovanni Vigni's work, and it's quite interesting, as there's one bit that goes in the opposite direction of my interest in languages/compilers: de-compilation. It reminds of the work of very passionate people (usually young kids around the world) that decipher game systems and games from roms and build emulators, with their little hex editors.. Perhaps they share a similar puzzle-solving/deciphering motivation as hackers.. It's something i haven't really thought about, but maybe just as interesting, as it deals with language translation (just in the other direction). I wonder if there's some more functional, dynamic (elixir/beam?) tools out there in that world, to make this whole deciphering process a bit more interactive.. like where you could highlight/select multiple regions of machine or bytecode and see various high-level interpretations 'n hints. Whoa.. or just have ai teach you.. :/

anyway, i just landed in town, writing this from some 24-hour donut shop.. I've got a feeling i'll either be here or at Long Beach until spring-time, so maybe in the meantime there'll be more better-fit opportunities.. Or maybe i'll have to start playing with hackthebox, on the defensive side.. against an army of ai agents..! It really does seem like the Matrix out there.. What a contrast to bucolic, sleepy SB!
