

TODO: withdraw/re-apply after "review" status?
  - maybe send another e-mail about it..?

heyo,

i'm back in America, and ever since i've been back, the rest of the world has been burning in my mind--particularly rural Asia, where i've spent much time-- and more recently Nepal and Indonesia!--, and so, i've had a deep desire to be around an international community, especially one that is passionate about making practical impacts to the entire world--otherwise, i'd be back in my old little Mitsubishi van in Taiwan dealing with local grassroots org problems! :)

for that reason, when i came back to America, i immediately took a temp job at UC Berkeley over the last summer (2024), where i got to see how a public school operates, from the dirty side, as a cleaner, alongside the Cantonese/Guangdong and Latina/Central-American working mothers, and as as house-mate of several students. It was physically and socially rough (i still have an injured shoulder/arm!), as i quicky realized the town is dead during summer-time.. so now, after having travelled and lived down the coast of Cali, i'm willing to give it a shot during the school semester, just in another area.

for a long time now, i've wanted to do computer admin/support work, particularly being *the computer person* for a more humanities-leaning department (+ arts, ecology, design), as those are my people, and as i'd have the power to choose or write my own simple solutions / products [from begin to end] myself, as that's what i naturally do: make stuff! Additionally, i'm quite interested in supporting researchers too, as it seems to involve a very simple, pragmatic style of systems programming/scripting that i really dig: python/C scripts with a basic generated gui, along with on-prem hpc admin. Unfortunately, my game making background doesn't seem to help much in the new world of cloud-computing and ai, nor even in systems admin, despite it being pure systems programming--hence my willingness to do some simpler work, such as this job! Despite that, i'm certain systems admin and support dev work within academia is one of the best techinical paths for me here in this world, as i've experienced early on both startup and silicon valley private work, and now, after living through several communities, absolutely need a communal atmosphere with social-impacting ends. I intend to keep my grassroots permaculture family 'n life in Asia, but i also would like a passionate, progressive community here in America too, just with more technical means/work.

recently, while in permaculture-land and here in America, i went through a fun 70's programming phase of terminals/shells/scripting/linux/etc., ultimately leading to emacs 'n ruby/dragonruby (and soon jai and possibly elixir/phoenix too). I really enjoy hopping around servers, repos, editing files, using little cli programs, just getting stuff done. Also recently, i've surveyed the land of programming languages (especially for game-dev) and gui/app/web/game solutions too, as i personally intend to continue to make games 'n web apps on my own. There's some satisfaction i get in solving problems simply, and choosing the right simple tools (: langs, libs, programs, and products), and i hope continue on that rather broad, generalist path. Though i've got my own tastes in things, i really like that unis tend to be sheerly pragmatic, procedural. More recently, when i was at Noisebridge, where there was a ton of meetups on everything nerdy (: ai, ml, robotics, infra), it was clear that i just wasn't interested in pure computer science stuff (save some infra tips, tailscale, nix), unless it aids in building actual products/projects (ai, ml). So, despite living a totally different life, i think i've still got the technical passions within me, it's just that in i've been historically motivated by purely grassroots/DIY communal passions/pursuits, often artistic and anarchistic/civic, as opposed to academic pursuits, often scientific; Yet, even if my passions don't overlap with the scientific program, at least they share technical skills.

the job is simple enough to where i feel i don't have to be pedantic about every qualification. Feel free to contact me via e-mail if i must.

the position will provide me more than enough time to get an understanding of how IT operates at a big uni, get familiar with some common software, and hopefully provide some opportunities choose/create some solutions of my own, automate, and do some sys admin work.

i've personally never had a reason to use more than one server in my life-time (neither cpu nor i/o), so simply working at a uni with a ton of servers and personal machines will provide me the much needed sys admin experience i desperately need.

anyway, just let me know.. i begin heading up the coast next week via motorcycle, stopping by campuses on my way (: usc, ucla, santa barbara, possibly up to santa cruz), escaping the desert that is the San Gabriel Valley. I've concluded my trip down Cali and am now certain, ready, and willing to work at any one of these great Cali institutions.. and just be happy to be back on the coast again, with some passionate people!

i envision working between the coast of Cali, Hawaii, and Taiwan, taking back all i learned from the "mainland" back to the lands 'n cultures i love and want to nurture.

fyi: i may apply to the computational media master's program at ucsc for 2026
