heyo,

i just finished searching through all the grad programs in Cali, and the only one for me is here!!: the computational media program. Since my heart is set on that (the program, department, and research!), it'd be nice to work there first, get acquainted with the place--the school, town, 'n surrounding areas--so that i can come back to a place i'm comfy with: another home. :)

this job seems really cool as it's all over the place, like me! For most my life i've taken care of spaces and the people within them, all over the world: drab road-side Americana motels, traveler hostels throughout asia, makerspaces, artist-communes, permaculture-communes. Despite having a rather technical education 'n done a few tech jobs, this is the work that comes most natural to me: to take care of everyone around me. I love being with everybody, all the time! I love spaces with passionate people. I love helping and collaborating with people towards their hearts' desires. To me, that's life.

a uni however is a little different from a natural grassroots organized space, wherein a group of people create a strong attachment/friendship and decide to create a space for their shared passions/affinities. The uni is far more drab than my liking, but it would be fun to be a part of the people trying to change that, providing the much needed love to make it a better place.

my nomadic lifestyle, combined with my most recent refuge situations, has led me to the recent conclusion that anywhere can be a home.. especially now as i plan to transition to van-life in America. Though Taiwan is always in my heart 'n mind, i've gotta make a home where i am, and that means make it feel like a home: a place where all is welcome and treated equal.

i believe santa cruz perhaps has the most potential to make the campus feel like a home, as it attracts the most inclusive (strong feelings/emotions about social problems), loving, caring, nature-loving students; yet also being less overtly politically-correct which often inhibits progress/improvement. It's a place that has the potential to create experiences and make friends that can last for a life-time. Honestly, the main thing holding the uni back--in addition to the property/property-owner problem--is the god awful campus/urban-planning (if there was a plan). It seems they've designed ucsc 'n ucsd to divide 'n conquer!

i'm certain that many students with such social-justice-oriented minds have a lot to desire. I'd be happy to be with them: or, perhaps, i am no different then them. We all seek betterment, of infrastructure, culture, society, governance/politics: everything. I'd be there to listen, empathize, mediate conflicts, solve conflicts, find/create/innovate solutions. I've lived with the dispossesed my whole life. Maybe we're attracted to each other? lol. The only difference here is the addition of excess government bureaucracy, policies, etc., restricting improvements to be more "civic" (laws, policies) as opposed to Taiwan's deeper focus on building a better culture, and creating 'n following local leaders/models (mothers, bhuddists, farmers, etc.) by witnessing their daily ethics 'n actions, and being motivated by them.

coming from more grassroots permaculture, art, and anarchy oriented communes 'n communities, surely, santa cruz is the only place to be (--STEM focus/endowment seems to have killed the humaneness out of the other unis on the west). It can't be easy coordinating such sensitive students, yet, i'm very attracted to sensitive people, and don't mind taking care of whatever social problems that arise. The social problems that do arise are what i believe some of the most important political problems and lessons in life. It'd be fun to discuss how to deal with such cultural problems on the campus, then organize/execute some solutions to improve the culture.

naturally, as an explorer, i'm the resource person, knowing where everything is, and can route people to the right person/place. It would be awesome to bring different departments together more to collaborate, particularly the STEM folks with humanities folks, which often feels so divided (it was in Berkeley, according to my student housemates); also different races, of which divisions are a stark contrast here in Cali compared to the east coast, where i grew up, as the only one of my race (south-asian) from K-12. Being here in the San Gabriel Valley... is somethin'!

lastly, i'm able to renovate, centralize all the resource knowledge-bases, web-sites, etc., make it all easily accessible, editable, for all, and automate or cut off any excess software solutions. I was actually looking for jobs for systems admin or support dev for researchers, to reboot my computer career.. But having lived such a deeply social life for so long, who knows, maybe i'm better off without it..

or maybe i've got this job all wrong.. Perhaps it's about maintaining the status quo?: suppressing desires, yearnings, cries, by use of isolation, alienation, and distraction? I hope not! Santa Cruz is the last fort/hope on the west, afaik.

let me know.
