
NOTE: applied past initial review date (IRD: 8/5, submitted: 8/23)
  - recieved e-mail noting that
  - "rejected" status on the job i was e-mailed about, still "routed" status on the other one
  - TODO: can withdraw..

heyo again,

just applying to both jobs, adviser 2 & 3, as i'm not sure where i fall.

i'll keep this short.

i just finished my trip living in different parts of Cali, and Santa Cruz is one that i skipped, as it was too early in my trip, starting from Berkeley. Last summer, i worked at Berkeley for my first job back in America, and during that time, my house-mates all agreed that UCSC is the last rad uni, not Berkeley. I found Berkeley indeed to be too.. sterile for my taste, and anyway, without any students during the summer, it was an entirely drab job, without any youthful energy.

i haven't done academic advising before, and i would only be familiar with the computer and computer media related departments, less so math/stats (it's been too long, save discrete/matricies for game proramming) 'n biotech. Yet i feel it would've been nice to have such a person to help me out when i went through the CS undergrad degree myself. At that time, we, the students, really had to rely on word of mouth, more senior students, and ratemyprofessors.com, since it's just a no-name local uni within commuting distance to my parent's home. And even then, the classes were often nothing as expected: operating systems dealt with disk segment faults and memory faults, databases was tied to some Oracle sponsorship, computer graphics was instantly full (the only thing close to video game programming at the time), and really only one non-tenure professor stood out as being practical, teaching extremely productive classes on web servers and web dev. The rest was outdated theory. Clearly, UCSC is a much better place, but in any case, i feel advising is very important, especially now, that software has specialized more 'n more.

eventually, after my first two software dev jobs, i began making games myself, and then went to join NY's indie game scene, and as it turns out, none of the courses were helpful to that end--of making games. What a waste. Thankfully, i had a scholarship and commuted from my parent's home! I can't imagine the sort of debts students now go through..

during that time in NY, i became familiar with NYU's game center, ITP program, and had a scholarship for Parson's/The New School's design and tech MFA program, but after simply living and doing it, i concluded i didn't need any of it (though it sure would've been nice to join some ITP electives!), and turned it down, and thus avoided a debt trap completely, and chose to travel the world. That is a decision i do not regret at all.. but it's all quite difficult to imagine from the lens of sheltered person coming from the suburbs of VA Beach..

it's a over-worked job, i hear, hence the turn-over, but it might be worth living in the redwoods for a bit, and being at service to my fellow idealist nature-lovers, film-makers, and game-makers. :)
