heyo,

i recently finished searching through all the grad programs in Cali, and the only one for me is here!!: the computational media program. Since my heart is set on that (the program, courses, department, research areas/labs: everything..), it'd be awesome to work there first, get back into the computer world, maybe sneak into/audit some classes--especially bootcamps, get acquainted with the place--the department, school, town, 'n surrounding areas--so that i can come back to a place i'm comfy with: another home. :)

though i was aiming for a more software-y sys admin / research support dev role, the higher ed job market has me beat, and this job fits my tendency to hang at makerspaces, including my most recent hang-out spot: Noisebridge.

when i came back to America, after having lived several life-times in Asia, i landed in SF. SF at the time (~2023-2024) was a dystopia, full of contradictions, from the fentanyl crisis to creepy autonomous cars whirring throughout the night. During that time, as a way to catch up on what's goin' on tech in the "developed world", yet still be attached to the suffering streets, i hung out at Noisebridge, an old makerspace that i frequented a decade ago. I spent much of the time there reviving the space after the pandemic left it in shambles, spending lots of time cleaning 'n re-organizing, alongside a few others, leading a new, better, brighter era for the space.. i was a core part of the new leadershiip (of an anarchic space: not so simple..) and of the space-maintainers crew: the people that treat things like it's their own/home.

noisebridge is a different world from the traditional-farmer/ecological-minded folks in Taiwan, but it nonetheless shares a lot of ethos that naturally comes from grassroots orgs: a ton of utopian values, especially sharing 'n caring.. just lacking the natural environment. An American-cultured gov-run uni will surely be a far cry from that ethos, but thankfully, UCSC happens to attracts those sorts of beautiful folks, and, it's situated near lush mountain valleys, so i don't think i'll be far from my peoples!! Besides, a makerspace is one the rare instances i feel some policies would actually be helpful. Following SF's building code was the #1 priority, as i'm certain that city's fines are outrageous. Making it ADA was ideal, but impossible without some expensive elevator (there may have been some pulley-system in the past..). Fire escape routes was something that physical hackers (the locksmith sorts) were naturally conscious of. Creating a key-card system seems to be a popular redundant project among makers (though a good exercise in python/arduino/electronics!).. Politicking whether any room should ever be locked was.. interesting. The laser printer, CNC machine, and wood-shop were all constantly busy, creating fumes. Thankfully the space had huge industrial garage doors you pull up with a big ol' chain to air the entire space out. Somehow it all worked out..! ;)

actually, now that i've just stumbled upon slugworks.. maybe it's not too different after all..!?

the "dozens" of labs at the engineering school surely has far more money and equipment than any passionate individual(s) with idealistic dreams (most makerspaces/fablabs). It'll be cool to see everyone making stuff in a more "professional", research-oriented setting--and hopefully, i'll have less to clean! Yet, Noisebridge will always have many things that UCSC doesn't(!): an industrial knitting machine, a frightening DIY-made CNC machine, a more frightening bandsaw, an auto-streaming indie arcade machine, and lots and lots and lots of love, tough tough love, that comes in the form of voluntarily managing and running a truly public space in the heart of the mission district. Surely if i can do that voluntarily for nearly half a year, i could do it for money..?

unfortunately, despite having hung out at several makerspaces around the world when i was younger (noisebridge 10 years ago and again last year, death by audio/arcade in NYC, taipei fab lab, visited many in Japan), i still lack knowledge and wisdom about electrical engineering. I may have followed some instructions in my past to create alt-input controllers, played with a few raspberry pi's 'n arduinos projects, put together some arcade machines, made some circuits, etc., but i would really need to make some games with sensors to refresh me. Also, naturally, i don't have any experience with machines that a typical makerspace cannot afford [to get stolen] (large 3d printers, FGPAs, IC manufacturing machines??, etc.). I have a software background that yearns for the physical simple life, hence i really enjoyed alt input/output games/interactive media creativity during my game-making days (ALT game lab is my jam), and would be very eager to master the tools from that perspective!

i also lack experience in autocad/solidworks. There was a quirky guy spending all day on the CNC mill making tracks for a marble rube goldberg machine. It didn't seem tough, but surprisingly, the guy learned python in order to edit the CNC machine(?), to optimize the it's otherwise very long path.. Hopefully it's not too different than playing with a 3d game engine..

otherwise, in general, there were frequent safety workshops for learning how to use the bigger/more dangerious tools (wood-cutting, laser cutter, electronics 101), but for the most part, everything was documented on the Noisebridge wiki, in addition to being printed/laminated: laser cutter instructions, the settings used for each kind of material, etc. It was all very machine-oriented. The only area within the whole space i didn't get to play with was the metal-working area (lathe, etc.), which was still being repaired/revived after what seemed many years of being abandoned..

as a natural explorer, i'm also naturally the resource person of such a space, giving tours, knowing where everything is, and can route people to the right person/place/machine/software. Personally, knowing what machines are available or even exists adds to my boundary of i/o-based creativity 'n design (UCSB has the other interesting program more focused along these lines: media, arts, tech). Alternatively, showing people what they can do, what they can make, can be really fulfilling too. Lastly, it would be awesome to be the person to bring more people from different departments to make stuff and collaborate, particularly mixing the STEM folks with humanities folks, which often feel so divided (it was in Berkeley, according to my student housemates). From my experience, by far the most creative things made at such makerspaces came from children, the elderly, and people who never even knew such machines existed.

having recently worked at UC Berkeley, and having travelled down the coast of Cali, it's become pretty clear UCSC and possibly UCSB are the only places for me. Coming from a more grassroots ecological and arts oriented communes 'n communities, i am likely further limited to santa cruz. It attracts the most inclusive/socially-concerned, loving, caring, nature-loving, yet down-to-earth students and intentional dwellers... and those values have seem to have even seeped into the engineering department, where things like misfits lab, tech4good, social emotional tech can exist (and game-related labs when i need to relax!)!

anyway, i'll still be on the coast of Cali somewhere, likely still near UCSB while it gets close to winter-time, just let me know.. i feel this may be my last job app.. ever? i'm ready to give up on big orgs for the van-vending and startup life! Back to my indie ways. :)

if you really need references: my last supervisor at UC Berkeley, my house-mates at Berkeley (a phd candidate in philosophy, another one taking a much needed break from a history of consciousness--lol--, and a mech engineering undergrad that hates the STEM world). A solid all-queer household.
