heyo!,

i'm back in the States, and just finished (or is it endless?) my slow trip down 'n now up California, now in the heart of LA, just trying to get back to doin' some good ol' computer work, ideally at a uni with warm, HUMID, weather.. I recently did some unrelated temp work at UC Berkeley last summer, but i very quickly realized nobody is there during the summer!!; So, now i'm trying to work during the school year, to continue having a fun, passionate, energetic social life, and a place to come back to in America. :)

i was actually looking for a job as a computer person/admin for a department, as i prefer being the lone computer person, ideally a humanities/arts people, as i feel more at home with them.. but this one seems to throw one into the deep end, which at this point in life, i may just need, as a refresher in my computer career..

though i come from a rather niche experimental game programming world, recently, i've re-discovered some computer love 'n joy with terminals/scripting/linux/prog langs through an old iPad and chromebook, computering like it was in the 80s!, and ultimately with tools like emacs 'n ruby/dragonruby (and soon elixir and jai too). I'm very, very late to the party, and definitely not a linux person (games are one big bundled app), but i feel this simple, hacky, scripty, unix-y approach suits the get-shit-done ethos of scientific researchers quite well. Being the computer person for researchers is another path i've really wanted to try for quite some time now.., as i loathe web programming (and the history javascript), and as i myself also struggled with making games due to the technical requirement of game programming: so as an artist i think i can empathize. Lastly, there may be a path to data visualization, which may be the most gamey thing one can do with computers in academia/research!..

thus, i absolutely don't mind restarting as "software dev 1" here, especially as i have no "supercomputer" experience. I just think it'll be cool to jump around all the servers, profiling performance / get the gist of task-schedulers, common bottlenecks (data types, async io, cache misses, etc., and how it relates to game programming: what do they do with all those GIL python files??.. throw it all in Graal-like VM?), config tools, networks, etc. Maybe they finished that one AI-driven terminal tool by now to ease the transition.. I just enjoy this sort of very broad, generalist software work, where one can quickly jump in 'n out of servers 'n quickly edit files.. and even better if i can do it all within emacs or focus editor! ;) Finally, i may have a place to glean on all the terminal gems 'n tricks! I found some fellow hackers at Noisebridge (a makerspace in SF), told me about TailScale and Nix, but it's a very small group of infrastructure folks 'n hackers.

also recently, i've got an interest in programming languages, including their implementations. It mostly started from using the haxe programming langauge for games--a very cool language full of transpilers/source-to-source compilers!, then (dragon)ruby and the development of ruby (yjit, rjit, etc.), 'n keep an eye on development of jai too.. So, i've def got some interests here, and hopefully can master C/python during this job the sake of practicality (and C for game programming!).

anyway, just e-mail back, as i've gotta change my local number, again. I'll be moving to LA city this week, near USC, from the desert that is the San Gabriel Valley. Thank god!!
