
TODO: add an out-line mode for these kind of files too


because my personal tech experience mostly dealt with small 'n artsy games, i lack the contemporary large-scale web app experience most jobs want, so i'm only left with these rare support roles (product and engi support). Of the skills listed on this job post, i'm mainly missing the dev-ops experience: containers (docker), container orchestration (kubernetes, ansible), advanced ci/cd. I just never worked on such a big project that would need such techs. Next, i don't have rails experience either: i discovered ruby through jekyll 'n github pages, and i only really got into ruby with dragonruby, a mruby game engine. In fact, dragonruby is my favorite game engine, something i spent a long time searching for, after having gone through several other game engines written in various other languages. For my own web app ideas, i'm skipping rails for phoenix/elixir. I missed the rails hey-day.

From what i gather from the job post, it seems an ideal job for a tech generalist, on track towards tools dev / devops, which is the tech route i want to try (along with product roles).


at this moment in life, as i'm just getting back into pro tech work, i don't mind getting dirty and doing some grunt work, for the purpose of learning contemporary web tech and honing core programming skill. Design is the simple 'n natural part for me, programming is just the necessary means. When making games solo, both design and programming are so intertwined it's difficult to seperate the two jobs: the program is the design, and the design is the program; So i always feel i must master both.

 Another reason is that the headquarters is in SF, which i'm quite familiar with and can easily re-locate to in case i need to be in office.. though, the SF i came back to def resembled a more post-gold-rush ghost-town..


at least in this very generalist sense, for the sake of / designing good tools for making games, which goes from programming langauge, game engine, simple C libs, and just an interest of many programming concepts in general..

If this is a job where i can build up personal and internal tools in ruby, as the jobs necessitates, it would truly be awesome! 


I recently finished my trip exploring the coast of Cali, workin' my way back up the coast, livin' in SD and LA, now


His sense of programming AND design is just light-years ahead of anyone else (though nelua looks good too..).

--



NYC was my school!


one time, while travelling, a friend put me on to some philosophical audiobook courses. It was then, i understood there was something different in the way i process information. Some time after that, i discovered Voice Dream Reader, a sort of e-book reader that came with a few now-roboty-voiced "voices", a very good 'n simple app, targeted at people with dyslexia. I was able to read, really read. And i read a lot. I don't think i'm dyslexic, though i was "hooked on phonics" at age 5 and did poor in English courses. I'm a visual person. But, i think there's something deep about the experience of audio, over text. Besides, with all this stupid AI crap going on, this is one of the few areas i feel AI is actually a good application.


not hard, but, more time-constraining, my short time in NYC was hectic, running around and putting up video game art installations, in which code can be written in anything, usually a mess, in code and physically, with jumbled electronic circuits, alt controllers, arcade cabinets, all literally held together by velcro.. we just had to do whatever to make things work for the event. Well, i guess it wasn't that hard, because the artists of NYC are so empowering to be with.. ;)
