

heyo!

i must have recently signed up for the company's job e-mail list, when i was searching for the impossible: a junior ruby job in 2025, hahah!

i'm currently failing to transition into making web products, after having left the contemporary world for about a decade or so.. Earlier in life, i got into programming from a more artsy design angle: making games, particularly into the physical interfaces for games!.. But now i'm just trying to find jobs to practice the craft of programming, particularly using tech i personally like and plan to use myself: ruby/sinatra/roda/rails, C, elixir/phoenix, jai. Just the basic web stuff. I haven't done web dev for a long long time, though, my first job really was a great one, a four-person asp.net startup back when linq-to-sql was new! But for the most part, i come from a simpler systems programming world, where i've successfully entirely avoided web-dev, including a decade's worth of js frameworks. And so, now, i'm just trying to focus on standard web frameworks that do all the stuff for me: rails 'n phoenix.

i stumbled upon ruby in a strange way: via dragonruby, a marvelous game framework and language (mruby fork + more, maybe AOT compiler soon??--lightstorm). It's the heavenly match i was lookin' for long long ago: making games with a neat yet easily malleable (hashsplat, mix-in), powerful language, with a thorough dynamic runtime, which enables a great interactive game dev experience/console (though i'm still waiting for a proper smalltalk game engine.. arrr!!). Ever since that experience a few months ago, i innately decided that this is my language, my dev community, ethos, vibe, 'n people (sorry haxe! </3). Now I really just want to invest time in this: doing sheer ruby dev by day, everyday. Whether it's small scripts/jobs or rails, or whatever! I'm down. I even dig it's recent developments: prism, yjit (re-writing C extensions in ruby for jit, lol..), etc. This is one of the few tools i really admire and want to master.

unfortunately, about 95% of rails jobs are senior to god level, and there is no such thing as pure ruby jobs (sys admin/devops?). It's expected to have years of rails experience, in addition to various: container orchestration tools, cloud computing infrastructures, ci/cd tools, testing suites, job schedulers, large-scale databases, ai/ml/llm, and whatever else. It's a lot of tech, especially when considering a game can be made with plain ol' C and the SDL lib--heck, some people go back to freestanding C (without the std libs)! So, while the web folks added more 'n more tech, game devs seem to have gone in the opposite direction: writing only what's necessary, with a trend towards data-oriented paradigm to match how hardware caches stuff (my personal code journey was short 'n simple: from more constricting/"opinionated" game engines to more DIY game/media frameworks). And so, i just don't have all that web dev tech experience, all of which came up from the last decade. I'm personally banking on that the default rails/phoenix (live-view, live-view.js or turbo/stimulus) stack covers 95% of all web products, including everything i'd ever want to make, but who knows... maybe i'm missing something here..??

maybe i'm just an aloof old crudemuffin farmer now, too picky about his tools, epitomized by my recent jump into the emacs (doom-meow) rabbit hole, from which i write this letter, at a time when ai text editors are being developed with ai.. and yet, i really do care about and enjoy these tools. :) I guess my natural focus on interaction never really went away.. To me, interaction is life!

anyway, i'm in LA/LBC at the moment. I rode down the coast of Cali on a little scooter from Berkeley to San Diego last fall. Now that it's warm again, i had initally planned to head back up to Santa Cruz, to be close to SF's startup scene and all of their ruby/rails products, but, if this is truly remote, i'd finally be able to just go back home to the rural 'n indigenous villages in Taiwan. :)

just e-mail me. Otherwise, you can try texting me at 415-535-8416.
