heyo!

i just found this company by scouring the web for companies that use ruby/elixir ;). And this one, to my surprise, is actually in San Diego!!

i'm not really a new dev; i just come from a more artsy background: making games, especially very physical games. Now i'm trying to transition into making web products. Thus, i'm trying to find jobs to practice the craft, particularly using tech i personally like and plan to use myself: ruby/rails, C, elixir/phoenix, jai, haxe. I haven't done web dev for a long time, though, my first job was a really great one, using asp.net back when linq-to-sql was new! I'm kind of a certified javascript / web-dev hater, and i've been successful at avoiding it all my life, but now, i'm finally giving in. I'm still really hoping to get by with whatever phoenix/rails provides out of the box (live-view components / live-view.js, hotwire, etc.).. ;)

i stumbled upon ruby in a strange way: via dragonruby, a game engine. It's the heavenly match i've been seeking out for a long long time: making games with a neat yet easily malleable, powerful language. Ever since that experience, i decided this is my language, community, ethos, vibe, 'n people (along with haxe). I want to invest time in this. I even dig it's recent developments: yjit, prism, etc. This is what i want to master.

unfortunately, about 95% of rails jobs are senior to god level. It's expected to have years of rails experience, in addition to: container orchestration, cloud computing, ci/cd, testing suites, job scheduling, various large-scale databases, and whatever else. It's a lot, especially when considering a game can be made from scratch with plain ol' C and a few libs. I just don't have that experience, all of which came up from the last decade. I would hope that the default rails/phoenix stack covers 95% of of products(??), but who knows... i'm no web person. :/

now i'm thinking, maybe these sorta design studios/agencies fit me more, as it isn't simply a giant product, but more about creating a product from beginning to end, over and over, design 'n all. Yeah, this sounds like my style!

anyway, i'm actually in San Diego at the moment, at a cute hostel in OB! :D I rode down the coast of Cali with a little scooter from Berkeley! However, i had troubles finding housing around the North Park (normal heights, south park, etc.) area, so i was planning to head back up to Santa Cruz (def not a better housing situation :/) now that it's warm again, to be close to SF's startup scene, in particular, the ton of products made with ruby/rails (from the dot com era to now).

just e-mail me when you can. I might not get back to you until i'm able to recharge my phone and find some wifi. But, i'll def come down to work with ya! ;)

i attached my resume, just in case.
