heyo!

i just found this company by scouring the web for companies that use ruby/elixir. ;)

i'm currently trying to transition into making web products, but I come from a more artsy
background: making games, especially very physical games. Thus, i'm trying to find jobs to
practice the craft, particularly using tech i personally like and plan to use myself:
ruby/rails, C, elixir/phoenix (jai, haxe). I haven't done web dev for a long time, though,
my first job was a really great one, using asp.net back when linq-to-sql was new! I'm kind
of a certified javascript / web-dev hater, and i've been successful at avoiding it all my
life, but now that I want to make a few web products, i'm finally giving in. For my own projects, i'm still really hoping to get by with whatever phoenix/rails provides out of the box (live-view components / live-view.js, hotwire, etc.).. ;)

i stumbled upon ruby in a strange way: via dragonruby, a game engine. It's the heavenly
match i've been seeking out for a long long time: making games with a neat yet easily
malleable, powerful language. Ever since that experience, i decided this is my language,
community, ethos, vibe, 'n people (along with haxe). I want to invest time in this. I even
dig it's recent developments: yjit, prism, etc. This is what i want to master.

unfortunately, about 95% of rails jobs are senior to god level. It's expected to have years
of rails experience, in addition to: container orchestration, cloud computing, ci/cd,
testing suites, job scheduling, various large-scale databases, and whatever else. It's a
lot, especially when considering a game can be made from scratch with plain ol' C and a few
libs. I just don't have that experience, all of which came up from the last decade. I would
hope that the default rails/phoenix stack covers 95% of of products(??), but who knows...
i'm no web person. :/

and so, i'm left with these more generalist support engineer jobs, such as this one. It
still has a long list of requirements, but it doesn't look too daunting. Hopefully i can
deal with it..

anyway, i'm actually in San Diego at the moment. I rode down the coast of Cali with a little
scooter from Berkeley! I'm now planning to head back up to Santa Cruz, now that it's warm
again, to be close to SF's startup scene, in particular, the ton of products made with
ruby/rails (from the dot com era to now).. Also, maybe i can get my friends at Noisebridge
to help me hack at bugcrowd together! :D

just e-mail me when you can. I might not get back to you until i'm able to recharge my phone
and find some wifi. But, i'll def come down to work with ya! ;)

i attached my resume, just in case.
