

heyo!


i was just travelling back up the coast of Cali by motorcycle, towards Santa Cruz, in search of a momentary home in America, and upon riding through LA, i immediately fell in love with / felt at home in LA, in particular LBC, but surely the SGV will feel homely too, as i've lived in Taiwan for quite some time now..

i honestly haven't done much tech work for a while now, living a very different life in Asia, now very slowly transitioning back into America. I worked at UC Berkeley last summer, but it wasn't tech related. When i was young, i did programming for sake of making art games, particularly the interfaces/controllers for games; i guess that was my niche. Because games simply require pure systems programming, i just can't compete with the contemporary web dev market of the Bay Area, where you need experience with a billion contemporary technologies: ai/ml/llm, cloud computing, container orchestration, various web frameworks (front and back), and so on... I feel these research software engineer jobs are much closer to pure systems programming, which i find more rewarding: just writing straight-forward programs, input-output, solving problems directly, without a trillion libs, frameworks, 'n other tools. And now with ai-assistance, why not? I feel it parallels well with game dev, which trends towards a very simple data-oriented paradigm using C, in order to get the benefits of hardware cacheing. I think i'd just enjoy that simplicity, especially when compared to massive react web products with a ton of integrations.

in addition, this particular job seems to be the software engineer job of an accelerator program, meaning, i get to work on multiple research projects(!), which is ideal for my nature, as i enjoy jumping around and working on different projects, aiding a community of people, being a sort of liason. That's truly what i have years of experience in: aiding and facilitating communities. I'm very much a generalist by nature, and so in software too. I've got some interest in programming language design, and have personal interest in a few: ruby/dragonruby, C, elixir/BEAM, haxe (and soon jai). So, i think using pop research langs, particularly julia, would be fun too! :D

the job post mentions, under it's preferred qualifications, GPU, machine learning, and full-stack. I don't mind doing some simple full-stack dev, especially with simple web frameworks (sinatra/roda) or ones that provide all one would ever need rails/phoenix (live-view/.js, turbo/stimulus, components, etc.). I've swerved around GPU quite a lot when i was into making games, but never deeply got into it: neither interfacing renderers nor shaders. I've mostly left that work to the game engine maintainers, hopping from game engines to more bare frameworks, for more flexibility. And anyway, i was far more into the interfaces rather than fancy graphics.

anyway, i'm currently staying near Long Beach at the moment, and will move into Long Beach soon. Just e-mail me. Otherwise, you can try texting me at 415-535-8416.
