
heya!

i'm at a point in life where i'm transitioning back to America, specifically California, solely to work within my first career and make a base in America. I recently finished my motorcycle trip exploring 'n living along the coast of Cali, from Berkeley last summer to San Diego last winter, and now am slowly exploring LA (metro) to make my home away from home.

i've been out of the tech world for quite some time, but recently, during my off-time while working at UC Berkeley (not tech-related), and during the pandemic before that, with just an old chromebook at hand, i discovered some newfound joy in computers again while searching for tools to make making games, gui apps, 'n web apps a more enjoyable experience--and i found them!: ruby/dragonruby/rails, elixir/phoenix, and soon jai, along with my old fav: haxe/heaps/haxeui. The journey led me through a history of programming languages, linux, unix/terminals/shells, all the way back to the beginning with lisp/emacs 'n smalltalk! It was a fun blast through the past. So now i'm trying to transition back into contemporary web/ai, with an aim for early/founding rails/phoenix startups, to crawl out of the game-making hole, and just build a more generalist skill-set.

this job sounds really, really fun, as it's simply massaging some llm to make a better chatbot experience--possibly the most fun job i've seen beyond the indie game world! I love anything text (hence emacs), talking, and probably would've played and made text adventure games if i grew up during it's heydey! Mastering the scuplting of the customer chat bot using the enourmous amount of data that DoorDash already has just seems like such an ideal first ai job. I honestly don't have ai-making experience, but as a person with decades of real, human customer service in hospitality, living 'n working around the world, i feel i may be a good stickler for such a task. I'd hope i'd be able to make something that isn't merely an update to a voice automated system full of generic workflows, but a chatbot that can empathize with the problems that DoorDashers often have (bad addresses in the dark) and offer comfort, support, and solutions. Perhaps even a choice in style: extremeley pragmatic vs more human? Anyway, it's just a really cool job!

beyond the inital few pro tech jobs i did, most of my tech experience came from my passion for making games, including video games, with a very niche focus on games using custom controllers/sensors. I was born to design human interfaces for games, as proven by my childhood birthdays at Chuck E. Cheez's. As game-making only requires pure systems programming, usually C++ with an embedded scripting lang, i lack a lot of contemporary web dev skills: infinite js frameworks, cloud computing 'n container orchestration, language modelling, etc., etc. I approach programming from a solo designer's perspective, so i'm only able to use the best fit tools to implement my design ideas, thus i'm left with skills in bare game/media frameworks and interests in one-man web frameworks. Though, nowadays, i seem to be going crazy, wanting to program closer 'n closer to the hardware, in C. ;)

my nature prefers the chaos of talking and supporting everyone in a community, whilst doing several tasks on several projects on my own, learning and doing a bit of everything. I can envision myself being satisfied working at a small media production or a 10-person-max startup where it's very DIY and where everyone does everything, but who knows, maybe there's some flexibility and cross-department cooperation in such a high-tech company?

anyway, after travelling down the coast of Cali, i now know for certain there is nothing that even comes close to the culture, geography, nature, 'n climate of Asia, but after wondering around LBC/OC, i truly believe the LA (metro), and possibly the South Bay of SF are the closest things to it. I've lived in Berkeley and SF, so i might as well finish the Bay Area off, living close to my Taiwanese and Indian folks in Milpitas 'n Fremont. :)

e-mail me, otherwise, you can try contacting this number: 415-535-8416 .

ra

