heya.

i'm at a point in life where i'm coming back to America, specifically California, for the sole purpose of doing career-related work. I recently finished my trip exploring the coast of Cali by scooter(!!), and now am stuck in Ocean Beach, San Diego, doing gig work down here (hopefully doordash with my scooter soon!) in the warmth of the sun while i ponder upon some mid-life career directions..

if i continued to pursue my tech career when i was young, it may have been creative digital tech consultancy, designing art-tech experiences for big brands. However, Asia and nature called, so i pursued much deeper paths in life. Now that i'm coming back to tech work, i feel i have the patience to handle the slow design process of a big and important product such as this one.

DoorDash is a product i truly care about. It actually gives freedom to people, many people: immigrants without papers, new immigrants, and for everyone that just needs money now, during a tough time in their life. In cultures where market capitalism prevails over traditional values, the ability to get money is most important. From the brown 'n latino 'n eastern european delivery drivers in SF to Punjabi/Sikh drivers in Hong Kong (maybe that was another deliver app..) to minorities and other disadvantaged or discriminated peoples in the rest of the world, it empowers everyone. Another reason is because i simply love motorcycling and bicycling. This provides an opportunity to do what i love while making some money. :D

in my prime, i was a concept designer and artist, but even moreso a community and event organizer. I created concepts and actualized them, doing everything either myself or with my friends: organizeation, conceptualization, design, development, management, support, anything to make it happen. My design and tech experiences mostly dealt with physical art games. Making them required niche game engines, frameworks, and languages. Thus, i lack the contemporary large-scale web app skills most pop software engineer jobs (especially in SF) want. Even for my own web apps, i chose phoenix framework, which isn't so trendy. Thus, i feel design is not only what suits my nature, but also is the practical path for me. The tech skills involved for games and new media are completely different from DoorDash's (systems programming vs django->kotlin/jvm, cassandra, kafka, etc.). But, as i'm just getting back into pro tech work, i don't mind getting dirty and doing some grunt work. I just feel far more comfortable working at the design level than the engineer one for a big product such as this one.

within a bigger tech team, i naturally belong to more generalist product design and management roles: making--designing, developing products-- and maintaining--product manager, QA, customer success--, preferring to always have the big picture in mind from a far viewpoint, understanding a bit of everything, conceptualizing and prototyping products, naturally communicating and collaborating with everyone, understanding what customers want, what they like aesthetically, what they love, how they think (especially different cultures, ethnically and geographically), having a sense of good product design (great-feeling controls, interaction, a sane user interface and experience), tinkering on products, prioritizing the most obviously broken things and the lowest hanging fruit of features that would make customers happy, and constantly improving the design, inside 'n out (the code and the design). Creating new design concepts is the most fun and natural process for me, programming is unfortunately the necessary means. It would be such a great relief to simply be able to focus on just the design for once instead of programming. What a bliss that would be!

this job would be a fantastic first major design gig in product design within an extremely constrained medium, mobile apps. I loved conceptualizing and making iPad games in my heydey when it was new (except using objective-c), but this is even more limiting than that! I feel it would be a constant back and forth process, of using the app myself to deliver (i really wish to design that part, but only the senior position is available) and order stuff, and then naturally thinking of ways to improve the app. And then using visualization of collected data to gain insight on how various groups of people use it, and improve the designs for them.. and repeat.

anyway, it would be a dream to DoorDash off a motorcycle while simultaneously improving the software 'n design, in SF and anywhere else in the world!

i worked at UC Berkeley last summer, and SF was the first place i went to after leaving the surburbs and after coming back to America, so it's another home to me, and i feel comfortable re-locating back, if necessary.

please just e-mail me, otherwise, you can try contacting this number: 415-535-8416 .

ra

