heyo.

i'm not a tech writer by profession. By nature i'm either a loving-community supporter or a game-ux-designer, which is what my past experiences reflect. Yet, I also have a very talkative nature, great at understanding complex concepts, and always writing, so I figured, maybe I could try one of these gigs..

what initially brought me to GitLab  is that it uses ruby, which is my favorite language--which I discovered by way of DragonRuby!!--, and there is a position for a full-stack engineer for the technical writers which uses ruby on rails, which i'm really interested in, but, unfortunately, just don't have any rails experience (for a long time now, I've avoided web dev and javascript, but recently, I personally chose phoenix/elixir for my own newer web projects. Thus, i've kinda skipped over rails completely.. :/). And so, I figured, I might as well start from the tech writer's position, then, perhaps, I can just add my own features, scripts, 'n workflows to the web app! :)

this whole domain of writing and building knowledge-bases/wikis is a special interest of mine, as i'm very picky about the design of tools about expressing one's self. I myself use many writing tools: emacs, focus editor, voice dream writer, and good ol' paper 'n pen. I've long since moved my old blog to Jekyll via GitHub Pages--which automatically handles the CI upon change. As a nomadic writer/thinker, reducing friction in the workflow from idea/conception to publishing is key. Throughout my lifetime, i've went through a bunch of flawed iPad markdown editors (and readers), and though i've heard Obsidian has great mobile apps, ultimately, i've never used anything more than a handful of folders full of text files. And now that i've learned the ways of keyboard-oriented terminal text editors (helix!), i'd much rather just use those tools instead, as i can edit emacs or write ruby scripts as i need. :D

anyway, i'm sure you're tired by now.. I'm in San Diego at the moment, but i'm likely going to begin to ride my motorcycle back up the coast soon to Santa Cruz, so that i'm closer to SF again.  Just e-mail me!
