heya.

i'm at a point in life where i'm coming back to America, specifically California, for the sole purpose of doing career-related work. I recently finished my trip exploring the coast of Cali by scooter(!!) and now am at the end in San Diego while i ponder upon some mid-life career directions..

i've been out of the tech world for some time.. but even now, i still feel holed into software dev work professionally; yet, it's the new concepts that drive me. Putting new products into the world, in order to change the world. I'm a concept-making machine, from philosophy to apps to funky controller inputs for games to interactive art installations to making hostels to designing with nature. The first part is the most satisfying: to make a highly-creative/experimental prototype with minimalist design as proof-of-concept. The design comes naturally. Then comes the software engineering. It always been the big software engineering projects that killed my energy, leading me on a long quest towards finding 'n designing better engineering tools: programming languages, game engines/frameworks, etc. But that's a rabbit hole i'll leave to the powerful programmers. I'm far more interested in just making higher-level stuff!

as making games only requires pure systems programming, i actually lack the contemporary large-scale web app pro work experience to compete in today's software job market. While job hunting, i stumbled upon design jobs, and i realized i must go back to my design roots asap, and just forget about software engineering positions. I'm a designer (and product manager) first, engineering was just the means. I simply do whatever it takes to make a product reality, nothing more.

i really just wish to transition into design. As a person that loved games, film, music, new media art, and has made it all in the past, i feel that design roles or design studios are where i belong. My nature prefers the chaos of talking and supporting everyone in a community, whilst doing several tasks on several projects on my own, learning and doing a bit of everything. I think i'd be satisfied working at a small media production crew where it's very DIY and where everyone does everything. I'd also be down for supporting the design of as many projects as i can(!), in addition to thinking about new products. I think all products suck, so there's always something to do. ;)

anyway, having gone down the coast of Cali, i am now certain that there is no place like New York City. It's what pushed me to my greatest heights, at Babycastles, burning with passionate work-energy. I don't have as much wild energy now, but perhaps that's a good thing.

in order to contact me, just e-mail me. This number may work: 415-535-8416.

ra
