

 
for the little video I linked, I was young, travelling for the first time, and had some tough feelings within me, coming from the US, and seeing people vend food on the streets like that. At that time I viewed it all as a struggle, more black and white (Now, I actually admire the fresh produce and food vendors the most, see them as powerful, as they are each an individual business, working on their own terms, doing everything themselves. And since then, I've sold tea and food on the streets of Asia myself! If it wasn't banned here in San Diego, I'd be on the boardwalk selling chai 'n snacks right now!!). Anyway, seeing such a person hustling bread on streets, literally and metaphorically, the juxtaposition to the costs of building properties, streets, contemporary technology, cars, must have blown my mind. Very similar to how when I landed in San Francisco recently, after having lived in rural and remote Asia for a long time, where there were autonomous cars next to people who've become zombies smoking fentanyl, hunched over all night, in the cold, of downtown. Anyway, it was just a thought I tried to express through video. My first and only attempt at film.

I had struck up a conversation with the shop-owner that supplied the bread to the street-vendor, as I had felt deeply about him, doing sisyphus's work. It was also of interests how Indians have come to Malaysia, as an Indian myself, who's parents immigrated to America. Then I asked if I could do an interview with him (the shop-owner) and take a quick video of the street vendor walking the streets. They both said ok.

I don't quite remember the details, as I was a manic person at the time high on travel, trying to make sense of the world at the time (ultimately leading to a dangerous philosophy binge/thinking, to the depths of epistomology)... but I rememeber jotted down some interview questions on a few flash cards, thought of some shots, then just went with it... There wasn't much of a technical plan.. I just shot the video on my old iPhone 5S(?), then edited via a hacked copy of final cut pro on an old Macbook, which I bought because it was sturdy for travel. All I had was two shots, one for the interview and one for the street vendor.

And in hindsight, I really like that, as I feel documentary film is the closest media we have to reality. Watching people... watching culture..  watching life. To me, there's infinite knowledge to extract from this sort of "fly-on-the-wall" documentary. Watching the life of a person, so many thoughts come to my mind..












working hard, sounds like grinding work, without much thought, but stepping back, seeing the big picture, by which time you realize what you're working hard for wasn't such a smart idea after all

...but then again, i'm the sort of person to travel to a place with a view-point: the ocean-cliff or mountain-cliff, and such bathe in the vastness of the world, be reminded of the wild mountains of Asia, and being able to go to those remote villages, and really experience a life much more real than most "work".

Even work towards my passion for permaculture ways of life, it doesn't require much hard work as it does smart. Farming isn't necessary. One can just learn to forage little bits of plants that grow back on the mountain-side. Work smart, not hard. I'm no athlete.