heyo.

i've just finished ridin' down the coast of Cali by motorcycle, now stuck on the edge in San Diego, waiting for my passport to renew, ready to work!

i've lived in Taiwan for a long time, and have friends there i consider my family. Unfortunately, during the pandemic, i was stuck outside of Taiwan, and eventually i went back home to my parents in Virginia. Immigrant woes, all over again! Thus, this job, being in Taiwan, and being 50% remote, seems quite ideal to me. It will allow me to continue my tech career that i left behind for a rural life in Asia whilst being close to my family in Taiwan.

my resume merely shows my favorite career-oriented things i've done in life; It hides the office work i've done. My first job was with Segin Systems, building Rynoh, escrow software in the then new .NET/ASP, alongside two other devs. I learned the most during that time. My second job was as a "QA and Release Engineer" at Perfect World Entertainment, when i moved to California. I learned the least at that job. After that, i've only done a few contracts, personal projects, 'n helped with friends' projects. Most recently, i made a long journey through tech history that lead me through linux, vi, emacs, shells, scriptings, etc. all through a terminal app on an iPad Mini 2 i had while stuck in Thailand during the pandemic, and later, a crappy chromebook. During that time, i was able freely explore tech tools, particularly programming languages 'n compilers, and finally find some tools i *love*: elixir/phoenix for web/apps, DragonRuby and Love2D for 2D games, ruby for scripting, haxe for general static programming. However, since my passion for games outwieghs the rest of my ideas, most of my experience deals with simple 2d games and game engines.

now coming back to tech jobs again, i think these broader, more social IT / devops jobs may be more fitting for me (as opposed to sheer app development), jobs that jump around customer service, trouble-shooting, design, bugs, development, scripting, automation, all of which now can be ai-assisted.. I was actually looking at jobs in California, but then somehow stumbled upon this. I personally have no reason to be in California except for the career and saving money, so this opportunity would be a blessing. I would be able to be closer to my friends, family, and favorite culture in the world, all of whom and which i dearly miss. Even though they live between Tainan and the east side, just being back in the culture, and within a train ride's distance, would make me so happy. Also, i'll be able to keep my Chinese language level up! :D

from the job post, i don't quite know what the job exactly entails, so let's talk!

and if i don't find a job soon, i will continue to travel through Mexico and Central America (and learn some Spanish along the way!), so please just e-mail me and i'll update with a new phone number from Mexico!

ra
