
heya!

i'm at a point in life where i'm transitioning back to America, specifically California, solely to work within my first career and make a base in America. I recently finished my motorcycle trip exploring 'n living along the coast of Cali, from Berkeley last summer to San Diego last winter, and now am slowly exploring LA (metro) to make my home away from home.

my early career was very specific: game design, with an emphasis controls, and my resume emphasizes that too.. but after living in Asia for about a decade, mostly doing grassroots organizing, i feel more comfortable doing community-oriented work, and helping children of nearbgy neighborhoods from Asian cultures out sounds great. My nature prefers the chaos of talking and supporting everyone in a community, whilst doing several tasks on several projects on my own, learning and doing a bit of everything. I've got a gist of what their parents are thinking, and the worlds they come from, especially Indian (i'm Indian) and Taiwanese (i live in Taiwan), and to a lesser extent, many other south-east and east Asian countries, as i've lived in about 10 countries for at least 3 months each. I've also got a gist of most academic departments, having scoured the library during my youthful auto-didactic philosopher phase, particularly the humanities. Having travelled down the coast, i now feel i've got some sense of the land of California and it's higher education systems too. Maybe my wandering nomadic nature actually comes in use! Hahah. I plan to live in/near Alhambra, to be central to a lot of schools, the DIY art culture of NELA/LA, and traditional Asian and Latino cultures, similar to Queens, NY.

when i was young, i too went to a nearby no-name college as i had to run my family's business. After that, i went straight to NYC to pursue my interests in games / creative tech, and it turned out to have the most amazing game scene in the world. At the time NYU (and USC?) had just began their game program, so beyond that, there actually was no path in higher education for me. Later, i turned down a master's scholarship for design and tech (MFA) at Parson's as it wasn't fit for me, and i couldn't justify it over world travel. As it turned out, there was no school fit for me, and i was actually right. It'll be interesting to see what paths the student take. I feel the kids nowadays have less direction and ambition than the young me, so it would be great to just serve as an empathetic community person to come to for general advice 'n info. Whatever info they need, i should be able to figure it out.

speaking of info, i'd probably have to make a knowledge-base/web-site/wiki, knowing institutions just suck at displaying info in a simple way... Perhaps i could maintain a digital chat channel too.

since i live in rural area in Asia, i have interest in paramedicine, to take care of the people around me. So, if i do take the job, i plan to get BLS/ALS certificates in the US, so maybe i'll be a student for a bit too. ;)

anyway, after travelling down the coast of Cali, i now know for certain there is nothing that even comes close to the culture, geography, nature, 'n climate of Asia, but after wondering around LBC/OC, i truly believe the LA (metro) is the closest things to it!

also, not on my resume, is working at UC Berkeley last summer, in case you need reference. It's nothing professional, just a temporary summer custodian.

e-mail me, otherwise, you can try contacting this number: 415-535-8416 .

ra
