

heyo!

i just stumbled upon this on hacker news' who is hiring post of the month.

i'm currently trying to transition into making web products again, as I come from a more artsy background: making games, especially more physical digital sensor games. I'm trying to find jobs to practice the craft, particularly using tech i personally like and plan to use myself: ruby/rails, C, elixir/phoenix, jai. I haven't done web dev for a long time, though, my first job really was a great one, using asp.net back when linq-to-sql was new! Because i come from a more systems programming world, web-dev, and particularly javascript, is something i've successfully avoided, until now, and so i'm trying to aim for ruby/rails support jobs such as this one. (for my own personal web projects, i'm hoping to get by with whatever phoenix/rails provides out of the box, nothing fancy..)

i stumbled upon ruby in a strange way: via dragonruby, a game engine. It's the heavenly match i've been seeking out for a long long time now: making games with a neat yet easily malleable, powerful language with a dynamic runtime, which provides a more interactive dev experience (though still not smalltalk interactive.. :(). Ever since that experience, i innately decided that this is my language, community, ethos, vibe, 'n people (along with haxe!). I really just want to invest time in this: doing sheer ruby dev by day. Whether it's small scripts/jobs or rails. Whatever! I'm down. I even dig it's recent developments: yjit, prism, etc. This is one of the few tools i really want to master.

unfortunately, about 95% of rails jobs are senior to god level. It's expected to have years of rails experience, in addition to: container orchestration, cloud computing, ci/cd, testing suites, job scheduling, various large-scale databases, and whatever else. It's a lot, especially when considering a game can be made with plain ol' C and the SDL lib--heck, some people go back to freestanding C (without the std libs)! So, while the web folks added more 'n more tech, game devs seem to have gone in the opposite direction: making from scratch, more conscious of hardware. So, i just don't have all that web dev experience, all of which came up from the last decade. I would hope that the default rails/phoenix stack covers 95% of of products(??), but who knows... i'm no web person. :/

[NOTE: company-specific stuff goes here]
the product seems pretty straight-forward: using ai to sift through and summarize video/audio content. And this particular job seems more approachable, as it deals with third-party integrations, not so much the primary architecture. It seems like an ideal place to start: doing the boring, rote work that the architects don't want to bother with. ;)

anyway, i'm in LA/LBC at the moment. I rode down the coast of Cali on a little scooter from Berkeley to San Diego last fall. I had planned to head back up to Santa Cruz, now that it's warm again, to be close to SF's startup scene, in particular, the ton of products made with ruby/rails (from the dot com era to now).. but, if this is truly remote, i'd just stay here in LBC for a moment, until i go back home to Taiwan. :)

just e-mail me when you can. Or you can try texting 415-535-8416.
