heya.

i recently finished my trip down the coast of Cali, now in San Diego, doing gig work down here in the warmth of the sun while i prepare for Mexico and ponder career work. I worked at UCB last summer, and lived in SF before, so i'm familar with the area, and feel comfortable re-locating back, but in this case, only of aboslutely necessary; I actually had my first job in Cali near there, at Perfect World as a "QA 'n release engineer" back when Torchlight was released, and it was a very boring place and terrible commute by public transport. I'd have to re-locate to south-east SF (near Noisebridge), palo alto, or perhaps half-moon bay would be a great possibility.

i saw a craigslist post for the software engineer job for rosetta stone, and immediately applied to that because it mentioned ruby and go (along with java), in hopes that it actually uses those languages. As far as software dev goes, working with tools that i like make a big difference in my personal happiness, and so i'm planning to come-back to tech 'n make a career out of tech tools that i like: ruby, elixir, etc.

the other reason is simply because i'm naturally interested in other cultures, and thus learning languages. I've travelled many countries in my lifetime, and moved to Taiwan as an adult, and thus had to learn Chinese, and wished there were resources to learn Taiwanese and various indigenous languages.. Unfortunately, Rosetta Stone was pretty abysmal for it's time, and that was 10+ years ago, especially when compared to local language books and it's competitors. It obviously needs a massive design update based on pedagogy, even the pedagogy of the 1950s is better. I really hope Rosetta Stone plans to improve and change greatly, and not remain the stagnant software product that it is today.

after seeing some reviews on Rosetta Stone, it seems nothing has changed since it's inception. It's a derelict software, like Encarta, wayyyyy behind it's competition in practicality: Pimsleur, Assimil, LanguageTransfer, perhaps closest to DuoLingo in method, yet still much older-feeling. It's sad because i'm a visual learner, yet Rosetta Stone doesn't come close to replicating learning by living in another country, or learning as a child. That's what led me to apply to this job too.

for me, the tech part is the most unnatural part of the job, because it requires such a narrow-minded focus. Communicating, collaborating, understanding what customers want, having a sense of good product design (particularly gameplay, controls, interaction), all come naturally. I made games out of passion; Design is the simple part, programming is just the necessary means. Yet, when making games alone, both design and programming are so intertwined, it's difficult to seperate the two jobs: the program is the design, and the design is the program.

in Taiwan, my best American friend there (catlard.com) worked for studycat(.com) for a long time, making iOS, particularly iPad games with a lua game engine, and then eventually Unity. We both share a passion for making games, yet live in Taiwan, so this sort of "game for education" is a natural route for us. I'm personally less interested in gamifying education, and prefer the sheer practicality of language software, so i avoided that sort of work. But we are close friends and so i'm sure he'll be great resource to navigate the education territory.

i understand that IXL acquired Rosetta Stone fairly recently, along with many other companies, but it really has an opportunity to make their pop-brand-name products great, or at least on par with current competition. And with so many similar education-tech products, it could share so much core systems software and design (dictionary look-up, cacheing, audio streaming, etc.) that works, that no other company should be able to compete with. With solid core features (via web api), only the product design would need some tender-loving-care. And for me, that's the most straight-forward part!

obviously, the whole thing needs a re-design and re-haul. If not, at least start by removing the most painful points: it's hella slow, especially when compared to things like Anki flash cards; The content is limited, shared across cultures where it doesn't make sense, possibly to the point of cultural appropration; The payment subscription has major problems; The cost is ridiculous; And that's just the beginning.. Compare that to the masterpiece of ed-tech software that is Pleco (for Chinese) or the brute simplicity of side-by-side Assimil, or a standard grammer book from Taiwan, and you can immediately feel the difference in quality and practicality.


anyway, just e-mail me, as my phone may not work in other countries. I will have to learn Spanish soon, but unfortunately, even i will opt for trying various superior alternatives: pimsleur, linguaphone, languagetransfer, etc. It would be great to learn languages while i re-design 'n re-factor Rosetta Stone at the same time. I grew up with Gujarati in my family/house-hold, English at age 4/pre-school, Chinese as an adult, and soon Spanish, and have Vietnam next on my travel list. I'm personally at my best when living abroad, and i'm sure if i try the products side-by-side, i'll immediately know exactly what works and what doesn't. What needs to be changed immediately. It would be sooooo cool to make Rosetta Stone the best langauge-learning product! It would also be cool to help modularize software and design between various products. But honestly, in order to do that, IXL will have to embrace change... a lot of change. I'm not sure if IXL is down for that.. My experience at Perfect World at Foster City was awful. A completely stagnant work environment. I never worked for a tech company since. I truly hope IXL is not that same.

ra
