heyo.

i've just finished ridin' down the coast of Cali by motorcycle, now stuck on the edge in San Diego, waiting for my passport to renew, ready to work!

my resume merely shows my favorite career-oriented things i've done in life; It hides the office work i've done. My first job was with Segin Systems, building Rynoh, escrow software in the then new .NET/ASP, alongside two other devs. I learned the most during that time. My second job was as a "QA and Release Engineer" at Perfect World Entertainment, when i moved to California. I learned the least at that job. After that, i've only done a few contracts, personal projects, 'n helped with friends' projects. Most recently, i made a long journey through tech history that lead me through linux, vi, emacs, shells, scriptings, etc. all through a terminal app on an iPad Mini 2 i had while stuck in Thailand during the pandemic, and later, a crappy chromebook. During that time, i was able freely explore tech tools, particularly programming languages 'n compilers, and finally find some tools i *love*: elixir/phoenix for web/apps, DragonRuby and Love2D for 2D games, ruby for scripting, haxe for general static programming. However, since my passion for games outwieghs the rest of my ideas, most of my experience deals with simple 2d games and game engines.

now coming back to tech jobs again, i think these broader, more social IT / devops / test jobs may be more fitting for me (as opposed to sheer app development), jobs that jump around customer service, trouble-shooting, design, bugs, development, scripting, automation, all of which now can be ai-assisted.. Taking a peek at what's required, i see little difference from playwright and what was done with Selenium a decade ago. Though most of my experience deals with systems programming, i don't mind testing / quality assurance of web apps. Otherwise, personally, i'd normally opt for ruby/elixir frameworks, to avoid the mess of javascript web frameworks..

and if i don't find a job soon, i will continue to travel through Mexico and Central America (and learn some Spanish along the way!), so please just e-mail me and i'll update with a new phone number from Mexico! For the moment, i'm here in Pacific Beach, soaking in the relaxing vibes. :). Growing up playing Tekken 3, this would be a wild opportunity. Also, since i normally live in Taiwan, i feel, as the Taiwanese do, that Japan is a sibling.

ra
