
heya!

i'm pretty sure i applied to a very similar job some time ago..--yep, job number: 105969. Only difference i see at a glance is level 1 vs 2. And since then, the only thing that's changed on my side is that i just moved from San Diego to the LA metro. San Diego just wasn't cutting it for me, i needed a more cosmopolitan environment, and even here, especially in OC, i'm still very much missing the unimitable grassroots, art, 'n intellectual energy of NYC.. Anyway, here's my old cover letter, updated:

i'm at a point in life where i'm transitioning back to America, specifically California, solely to work within my first career and make a base in America. I recently finished my motorcycle trip exploring 'n living along the coast of Cali, from Berkeley last summer to San Diego last winter, and now am slowly exploring LA (metro) to make my home away from home.

i've been out of the tech world for quite some time, but recently, during my off-time while working at UC Berkeley (not tech-related), and during the pandemic before that, with just an old chromebook at hand, i discovered some newfound joy in computers again while searching for tools to make making games, gui apps, 'n web apps a more enjoyable experience--and i found them!: ruby/dragonruby/rails, elixir/phoenix, and soon jai, along with my old fav: haxe/heaps/haxeui. The journey led me through a history of programming languages, linux, unix/terminals/shells, all the way back to the beginning with lisp/emacs 'n smalltalk! It was a fun blast through the past. So now i'm trying to transition back into web, with an aim for early/founding rails/phoenix startups, to crawl out of the game-making hole, and just build a more generalist skill-set.

beyond the inital few pro tech jobs i did, most of my tech experience came from my passion for making games, including video games, with a very niche focus on games using custom controllers/sensors. I was born to design human interfaces for games, as proven by my childhood birthdays at Chuck E. Cheez's. As game-making only requires pure systems programming, usually C++ with an embedded scripting lang, i lack a lot of contemporary web dev skills: infinite js frameworks, cloud computing 'n container orchestration, language modelling, etc., etc. Hence my preference for classic frameworks: rails, asp.net, django, etc. I have no interest in re-inventing those solutions in javascript, and i hope that big, smart institutions such as Stanford don't either. I approach programming from a solo designer's perspective, so i'm only able to use the best fit tools to implement my design ideas, thus i'm left with skills in bare game/media frameworks and interests in one-man web frameworks. Though, nowadays, i seem to be going crazy, wanting to program closer 'n closer to the hardware, in C. ;)

my nature prefers the chaos of talking and supporting everyone in a community--that's actually what i have decades of experience in--, whilst doing several tasks on several projects on my own, learning and doing a bit of everything. I can envision myself being satisfied working at a small media production or a 10-person-max startup where it's very DIY and where everyone does everything, so i feel some similar generalist role at a new media department would be ideal.

last summer, i saw how UC Berkeley worked from the bottom, as a temporary summer senior custodian. No bueno. Breaches of all safety: rats and rat shit all over storage areas, lack of the most basic equipment: gloves, and even then, buying the chepest gloves. The elder Cantonese and Latino women know it all too well, but live in fear as they must provide for their families. Welcome to America. Hopefully Stanford isn't so cheap as the gov..!

anyway, after travelling down the coast of Cali, i now know for certain there is nothing that even comes close to the culture, geography, nature, 'n climate of Asia, but after wondering around LBC/OC, i truly believe LA (metro) is the closest thing to it, and i've got a hunch i'll end up in SGV, between the Taiwanese and artists of east/north-east LA. Stanford would just be opportunity to catch up on the tech world, but i already know from SF and Berkeley in 2024 that it's no place to live.

i saw the journalism site, and i realized, it combines my past passions for media (game, film, new media, particularly interactive media) with reality. I'm amazed i never encountered journalism before, especially since i grew up watching and learning from neo-realist films. Reading the article on fentanyl and homelessness in SF is.. interesting, having recently survived the homeless shelters (when i came back to America).. My mind naturally makes more sense of reality out of video, perhaps a short slice-of-life documentary film of a shelter resident and/or a person addicted to fentanyl to capture the reality, humanity, and nightmare of living in such terrible places.. honestly, i'd seriously have to think: how could quantitative data possibly communicate anything better than documentary film, without losing so, so, so much of reality..?

i've gone through several articles written by students from the program recently, and i'm very, very underwhelmed. MIT media lab's civic media/tech back in 2012, which i remember as it was when i was applying to graduate school, seemed infinitely better than anything the students made from this program recently.. I would've expected more interactivity, visualizations, new media, persuasion, data, video documentary, story-telling... instead, what i see is a simple website maker called Vev and a demo of a Unity..?? What..!?!? :/

i was expecting the infinite data one has on the Ukraine war, a history of all of Trump's decisions and outcomes for accountability, or in the case of more local problems, something that attacks the roots of problems: a history of suburban culture and the problems it has created, such as how new tech working immigrants shifted the entire original Bay Area population, along with ancient zoning laws (with cute infographics on these, linking to the actual laws), housing investors/landlords (with a detailed info map), etc. documenting the mass migration (via census data, and whatever other public data). Instead, all i see are extremely surface level stories, without a sense of history nor consciousness of the place one lives in, of how it all came to be what it is now... but who left educate all that other than Stanford? C'mon man!

perhaps it's the everyday lived street experience of NYC and just about any Asian town or city vs the comfortable disconnected suburban cultural reality of much of California (from what i've physically seen), especially Palo Alto, that sedates the mind to focus on such trivial surface things. Or maybe Stanfard can educate me on how i'm wrong. :) I'm down to talk. Let me know. I just pray that Stanford isn't hushed by gov money and can actually inform the world on such basic truths in reality, as Vice media used to, and surely many newer journalists on YouTube do. And i'll absolutely be be down for making tools to make data more accessible, visualizable, interactive for the masses, including journalists, finding and prividing a set of media frameworks and modular media-making engines, just as other game-tool-makers provided me with so many game engines and frameworks, which made game-making accessible to myself, to my friends, and to the masses. I can't promise the journalist equivalent of the revolution of indie-game-making, but i can dream of such. :)

e-mail me, otherwise, you can try contacting this number: 415-535-8416 .

ra

https://careersearch.stanford.edu/jobs/software-developer-2-hybrid-remote-opportunity-28257
