heya.

i'm at a point in life where i'm coming back to America, specifically California, for the sole purpose of doing career-related work. I recently finished my trip exploring the coast of Cali by scooter(!!) and now am in San Diego/Baja Cali while i ponder upon some mid-life career directions..

i've been out of the tech world for some time, but recently, during my off-time while working at UC Berkeley (not tech-related), with just an old chromebook at hand, i discovered some newfound joy in computers again while searching for tools to make making games, gui apps, web apps more enjoyable (and i found them!: dragonruby/mruby, haxeui/haxe, phoenix/elixir). The journey led me through a history of programming languages, linux, unix/terminals/shells, text editors, all the way back to the beginning with lisp/emacs 'n smalltalk'! It was a fun blast through the past. So now i'm trying to transition towards more generalist IT jobs like systems admin 'n devops or specialize in data visualization if i can. However, in this case, i'm applying to this job as a sort of comfortable backup, and to get a refresher on web dev.

my first job was for a web app using asp.net, and since then, i've kinda avoided js (nodejs and react), opting for rails for a tiny moment, and now trying phoenix. As a solo dev, i tend to choose these sorta frameworks that do everything for me. Thus, i don't have much contemporary js experience, but i'm not against it either: it's inevitable. And besides, it sounds like the last AngularJS version is considered *clean*. Though i feel more comfort in complete solutions (.net, rails, phoenix) for big apps, i feel i could handle either way. The .net job (financial aid program) seems heavier, working on an existing big product, whereas this job seems to have more ownership, making a site from beginning to end, and therefore more freedom, more making. I much prefer making several small projects, or maintaining/re-factoring a big one. I'm less interested in making big products myself. It'd be difficult to know which job fits best without knowing more details.

beyond the inital few pro tech jobs i did, most of my tech experience came from my passion for making games (including video games). As it only requires pure systems programming, i honestly lack the contemporary large-scale web app pro work experience to compete in today's market, especially in the SF Bay Area: js frameworks, cloud computing / container orchestration, language modelling, software for massive scale. I'm actually more interested in the cloud platforms engi job but my past experiences only allow me a sliver of hope getting a job as a junior sys admin, non-js web dev, or a data viz dev. Most recruiters just don't care about game-making, and .net seems to be considered rather insular skill, separated from js frameworks, akin to ruby on rails (though Canvas uses it..!).

my nature prefers the chaos of talking and supporting everyone in a community, whilst doing several tasks on several projects on my own, learning and doing a bit of everything. I think i'd be satisfied working at a small media production or startup where it's very DIY and where everyone does everything, but for big institutions like this, i think i could find a home/community in a single department. I hope that i can share some knowledge 'n wisdom with the rest of the folks at IET, and do some work beyond web dev, particularly with the infrastructure and data folks. I'd be down for working on a many projects possible!

though Davis wasn't part of my trip down the Cali coast, i think i wouldn't mind living there for the job. It sounds like a wonderful way to try rural life in America for a bit. I even noticed that the IET office is near vegetable greenhouse and bees, which is awesome as i'm into permaculture/homesteading, and it would naturally lead my mind towards nature-related apps. Also, i love biking and motorcyling..! It honestly sounds like the last pleasant UC, with affordable housing nearby, though, i'd miss the beach 'n mountians dearly. In Asia, i discovered i love living in the country-side, and made a home in rural Taiwan, so this would be quite a natural step for me. I flourish in small towns in rural 'n remote areas.

anyway, please e-mail me, as i'll be getting another phone in Mexico!

ra
