heya!

as i was browsing some jobs on gamejobs.co, i nearly gave up thinking i could never work for a big game company--i love the art of games too much!--, but then i stumbled upon this job. Working on the tools that help indie gamers publish games on various platforms.. now that's worth it! For the sake of the artists.

i've been out of tech for a bit, now getting back into it with a much broader eye, and this job surprisingly hits a direction i'm interested in--devops/sys admin-- yet touches on a lot of my old experiences: as an indie game dev (using several different small engines and creative frameworks), qa & release engineer, and even once made an AR app using Unity with a friend!

i really dig the generalist feel to the job duties listed, leaving me in scripting/automation land, which is a place i think i'd enjoy, feel more comfortable in, while i can peer into the bigger C/C++ systems architecture every now and then, which i don't mind in smaller amounts, as it's the core skill of game and systems dev (until jai arrives ;) )! I'm a big picture person, prefer being a step behind the main devs, helping others, with a good view of the overall project, making sure everything is working, talking to everyone, re-designing, doing whatever's needed to get the project done. Though i'm old enough to have made iPad games with cocos2d/objective-C and various creative projects with openFrameworks/C++, at the moment, i definitely wouldn't able to work on the engine (i missed out on the "modernization" of C++), but at least i could support the people that do!

unfortunately, that qa and release engineer job barely did any Selenium work, and container orchestration was developed after that, so i don't have jenkins/ansible/appium experience, though i'm interested. My personal projects were quite small, so i just never had a need for such.. Recently i discovered a 2d game/media framework that i LOVE (sorry Unity): dragonruby, so i'm getting acquainted with ruby, and python is always easy to get back into. Also recently, i've explored the linux terminal world, emacs, and now am journeying into contemporary web dev with phoenix/elixir... So, as i said, i've been doing some broader things :). It's this rare generalist support job that fits my wild nature, trying and using whatever tools to get the job done, as i have trouble focusing on sheer systems dev features for long periods of time, as my first job required. I feel more natural and more freedom on the outside, prowling on the outside, ready to pounce.

anyway, i'm in Cali at the moment, exploring small towns to live in. I've lived in SF three times before (i recently re-organized the game area at Noisebridge, started a table cabinet arcade project, and helped game dev friends organize events there), so i'm very comfortable with living in the city again, but as this is a remote job, if i could, i would immediately go back home to Taiwan, back to my friends, family, 'n culture, and continue to live out my dream: working on tech while being at home! :D

just e-mail me, as i'll be getting another phone soon.
