all my life i've pursued my interests in games, purely, for the sake of games. I vowed to separate my passions/arts from money at a young age. Now, coming back to America, pondering upon jobs, i feel there may be a niche cut out for game designers in the world of research, particularly, aiding researchers to improve their tools' interfaces 'n experience, and ways to visualize data. It combines my past passions in game interfaces/controllers with my later passions for communities. For me, this is the ideal ultimate position within academia.

by nature i flourish within communities, aiding in organization and individual projects, from permaculture organizations to arts organizations in rural areas, both in Taiwan, to a pivotal game art organization in NYC to makerspace/hackerspaces in SF and Taiwan. I've done it all, except the organizations of academics. Every time in life, I naturally took the rougher, grassroots, DIY route. When i grew up, there was no program for game design nor game programming, though, i very much respected the program at NYU from it's inception. Actually, that reminds me: I first heard about USC through Jenova Chen, the indie game maker.

by nature, i focus upon the design of interfaces of products, from games to the tools to make games: media/game frameworks 'n engines, programming languages, text editors, imgui, level editors, etc. All of it matters to me, and i believe some of it may matter to researchers too; or at least, it could make their life a little better--like Julia (and haxe 'n raku before that). Maybe most of the time a plot lib is all that is necessary for quantitative evidence of a research paper, but surely there must be infinite applications that could be improved upon by having a better designed interface and/or visualization, especialy now with how far biotech has come. I feel there may be an overlap between the tech that game and "creative tech" artists/makers often make 'n use (SDL, graphics renderers, openFrameworks, media frameworks, game engines) and the tools that researchers use (data viz, gui, jupyter/org-babel?, C/C++ graphics). The main difference just seems to be the amount of data.. Luckily for many of us, a great game maker is nearly done with the language and framework: Jon Blow. So, hopefully, the next gen of game makers and certain researchers won't have to suffer from the complexity and silliness of C++. :)

anyway, that's enough dreaming!

why USC? To me, it's the NYU of LA: it has great film and game programs, which are my two greatest passions from my childhood. Another reason is because i want to experience how a private university functions. After coming back to America, my first job was at UC Berkeley (not tech related), and I feel I didn't fit there at all, being a pure research university, full of transient international and out-of-town students, without the roots of a big city. When I was young, i nearly did a master's at Parson's (The New School) for design and tech, and it being in NY was a great factor in that decision. I admired how well the art scenes 'n social movements on the streets were appreciated, empathized, and taken seriously by higher institutions. I have a hunch that USC is more similar to The New School and NYU than UC Berkeley: being productive, practical, experimental, critical/radical, having a far stronger humanities side to it, better design programs, all stemming from the wisdom and life-long relations that comes from living a highly active life in a big city. Thus, i don't doubt the power of the famous relations at USC. And if there were three institutions i'd want to have lifelong relations with, it would be USC, NYU, and The New School. And i'm now too tropical-acclimated and old for the cold of NY. ;)

anyway, upon exploring the coast of California, i decided to try living in Long Beach this summer, a little dense urban city it's own, so feel free to contact me any-time.
