heya.

i'm at a point in life where i'm coming back to America, specifically California, for the sole purpose of doing career-related work. I recently finished my trip exploring the coast of Cali, now stuck in San Diego/Tijauna, doing gig work down here in the warmth of the sun while i prepare for Central America and ponder upon some mid-life career directions.. but since i'm already applying to on-site jobs, i might as well go for it all: remote career work!

first off, wikipedia was my main knowledge resource and reading material as a kid. I'd read biographies, histories, pyschology, philosophy: everything. So much so that i can't even measure it's effect on me, let alone it's effect on everyone else in the world! It's surely the most important written resource in the world, and one of the most important technologies in the world, in addition to being a very idealistic and altruistic one. The only other tech that comes to mind is Discord, which i also love dearly.

unfortunately, i don't have much wikipedia contributing experience. I last used it for a small community/organization's wiki: the Noisebridge wiki (noisebridge.net), which actually had someone really into wikis, and held "update the wiki" meetups. Despite that, i do find the whole project fascinating: how people around the world contribute, individually and as groups, especially those countries 'n cultures that really can use the education to empower themselves. I personally moved from the suburbs of America to the small country-side towns and indigenous areas of Taiwan. And when i live there, i deeply empathize and always think about things from their perspective, sharing their physical and social worlds. Their lives aren't documented, and you'd really need documentary video to even get a sense of it. Also, having lived and worked at a bunch of hostels in my lifetime, it would be great to continue to interact with people around the world, help them, listen to them, and translate their experiences to solutions for the tech 'n product teams. I'm a lifelong traveler and wanderer at heart. It would be sooo cool to keep contact with wikimedia communities around the world!! And for the first time, i feel like this is a job that actually fits my life's experiences: from making little games to slowly travelling across Asia to setting roots in the country-side of Taiwan's beautiful culture.

..which leads to another reason i want this job: because i simply lack pro work experience to compete for current tech jobs. My personal tech experience mostly dealt with small 'n artsy games, pure systems programming, so i lack the contemporary large-scale web app experience most jobs want (js frameworks, cloud computing, enterprise software), and thus i'm only left with rare support roles like this one.

this job in particular seems to be between product, tech, design, which is precisely where i like to be. Within a tech company, i naturally belong to a more generalist product maintainer role, preferring to always have the big picture in mind from a far viewpoint, naturally communicating, collaborating, understanding what customers want, having a sense of good product design (great-feeling controls, interaction, a sane user interface and experience), prioritizing the most obviously broken things and the lowest hanging fruit of features that would make customers happy, and constantly making the design better, inside 'n out.

yet, at this moment in life, as i'm just getting back into pro tech work, i don't mind getting dirty and doing some grunt work either, for the purpose of learning contemporary web tech and honing core programming skill. If things do get technical, i find the tools dev / dev-ops route interesting, precisely because it's all-over-the-place, requiring broad tech knowledge, jumping around servers in terminals/emacs, posing as a hacker. :3 (though, i must admit, i haven't used PHP since i made a web forum, back in the web forum days.. shallow syntax reasons). Communicating, understanding, and maintaining things come naturally to me, programming is just the necessary means. When making games solo, both design and programming are so intertwined it's difficult to seperate the two jobs: the program is the design, and the design is the program; So i always feel i must master both.. Thankfully though, for this particular job, i'm not pidgeon-holed into sheer tech work. It's sounds sooooo alleviating to have communication be the main part of the work!! I can write 'n chat all day. ;)

lastly, Taiwan has been my home for nearly a decade now, so if it's even possible work from there, it would be my life's dream: to be able to live and work from home.., though, i didn't see it on the list of countries.. :/ After travelling down the coast of Cali, i now know there is nothing that comes close to life in Asia (save, perhaps, Hawaii). I came to Cali so that i can gather some career experience from tech jobs on-site, but if i can jump straight to remote work, then i can simply go home and finally be at peace. :)

please just e-mail me, as i'll be getting another phone in Mexico!

ra
